Welcome
Blocked bank accounts
From 1 January 2025 the presumed annual requirement that must be paid into the blocked account when applying for a visa will increase to 992,00 Euros monthly or 11.904,00 Euros yearly. This increased amount applies to all visa applications submitted from 1 January 2025. The Embassy and Consulate General reserve the right to request a blocked amount for up to two years in particular cases.
When applying for visa, you can provide evidence that you are able to meet your living costs by opening a blocked bank account. You have free choice of Provider. However, please ensure that the provider offers a login code for authorities which allows us to verify the blocked account or provides a contact in order to do so.
Information on providers that offer this service worldwide is available on the Federal Foreign Office - Blocked Accounts Website.
Your signature on the documents to open a blocked account has to be attested by the Embassy in Islamabad, the Consulate General in Karachi or the Honorary Consul in Lahore. For the attestation appointment please provide your passport and a black-and-white copy including page 2 / the page showing your signature.
For an appointment with the Consular Section of the Embassy please click: here. The fee to be paid directly at the Embassy is 25,- € (about 5400 PKR), but may change due to exchange rate. Please bring the exact amount. If you do not bring the exact amount or there is no change available at the counter, you will have to make a new appointment and bring the exact amount.
Please note that you have to book the online appointment for submission of your visa application seperately.
In all cases:
Please note that -when opening a blocked account- you enter into an agreement with the bank and that the German Federal Foreign Office has no influence on any decisions of the financial institution nor on your relationship with the same.
Deed of obligation (“Verpflichtungserklärung”)
A deed of obligation (“Verpflichtungserklärung”, declaration of liability) according to §§ 66-68 of the German Resident's Act is entered into by a sponsor residing in Germany. The sponsor has to appear before a Migration Office in Germany to make this declaration and must prove sufficient financial means, for example through payslips and bank statements covering at least 6 months.
Signing the declaration, the sponsor assumes responsibility for any costs that might accrue in Germany in relation to the person sponsored.
German or foreign official scholarship
Please note that a scholarship awarded by a Pakistani University is not sufficient, only a scholarship awarded by HEC can be accepted.