Welcome
Germany and Pakistan have enjoyed close and diverse relations since 1951. Germany is represented in Pakistan by an embassy in the capital, Islamabad, and a consulate general in the country’s business hub, Karachi.
Germany has a great interest in democratic and sustainable development in Pakistan, as well as in the country playing a constructive role in the region. German‑Pakistan development cooperation began in 1961. Since then, the German Government has pledged 3.8 billion euro in project support. The focus is on climate and energy, sustainable economic development, vocational training and employment, as well as on health, social security and the demographic transition.
Germany is Pakistan’s most important trading in the EU in terms of bilateral trade, which amounted to 3.3 billion euro in 2024. Pakistan’s main exports to Germany are textiles and leather goods. Its main imports from Germany are machinery, chemical and electrical goods, motor vehicles and iron goods.
The long‑established, effective academic and scientific exchange plays an important part in cultural relations between Germany and Pakistan.
The Goethe‑Institut in Karachi, together with an associate partner and accredited Goethe‑Zentrum in Lahore (the Annemarie‑Schimmel‑Haus), is the major actor in cultural relations, offering cultural programmes and language courses. Germany – along with the United States, the United Kingdom and Australia – is one of the most popular destinations for young Pakistani researchers wishing to pursue a PhD. More than 9.000 young people from Pakistan are currently studying in Germany.
The Friedrich‑Ebert‑Stiftung is represented in Pakistan, supporting projects that include the strengthening of democratic institutions, promoting human rights and empowering women, tackling climate change, deradicalisation, regional cooperation and media work.
Information about German development cooperation with Pakistan can be found on the website of the Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development.