An official website of the United States government
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Worldwide Caution: The Department of State advises Americans worldwide to exercise increased caution.
The American Center is a place full of social interaction where you can think and work creatively, build cultural bridges, collaborate, and make new acquaintances.
Held once each month at the American Center, moderated discussions cover a wide variety of topics, genres, and authors with an American focus.
The American Center also hosts a monthly movie day, where student groups and other interested individuals watch and discuss a full-length feature film, socialize, and have fun with friends and diplomats.
EVENTS
In collaboration with the Public Affairs Section (PAS), the American Center arranges programs led by American speakers at the U.S. Embassy as well as the Lincoln Corners to provide opportunities for Americans and Pakistanis to exchange views and opinions. Groups of professionals, scholars, or students may request a presentation on a specific U.S. topic.
BOOKS
A growing collection of books about American history, culture, and society is available for reading at American Center. To browse books of your interest, search our online catalog at: http://www.librarything.com/catalog/AIRCislamabad
MAKERSPACE
The American Center hosts “maker space” activities where students and young professionals can create, invent and learn. The Makerspace offers a 3D Printer, software, electronics, science kits, craft supplies, construction kits, hardware and other tools necessary to start your projects. These tools are available for use by appointment for visitors interested in experimenting with new technologies.
MOVIE DAY
The American Center also hosts a monthly movie day, where student groups and other interested individuals watch and discuss a full-length feature film, socialize, and have fun with friends and diplomats. Please contact us to see if we are organizing a movie screening on your interested date.
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE
American Center staff conducts internet workshops for students, teachers, researchers, journalists, and librarians to share online resources and enhance research skills. The American Center also provides research assistance in finding information on the United States.
DATABASES
Conduct your academic research through our American digital library. American Center provides free access to academic and commercial databases in eLibraryUSA – a virtual library with online access to thousands of publications, scholarly journals, articles, eBooks, and other multi-media content. Dive into resources for academic research, English language and American culture and politics.
The eLibraryUSA provides access to following nine databases:
The American Center also has a subscription to Lexis/Nexis database – a news and law resource. eLibraryUSA can also be accessed at our Lincoln Corners as well.
If you have a questions or you would like to visit the American Center please contact us!
American Center Islamabad
Public Diplomacy Section
Embassy of the United States of America
Islamabad, Pakistan
Phone: 051.2014000; 051.2015554
Email: LincolnCornersPak@state.gov
For Visa questions, please see our Visa page: https://pk.usembassy.gov/visas/.
We use cookies to make our website work better and improve your experience. By continuing to use the site, you agree to our privacy policy.
Please call: +92–51–201–4000 or 5000
Outside of Office Hours, contact: +92–51–201–4000 or 5000
Outside of Pakistan: 0092–51–201–4000 or 5000 or 1-888-407-4747
Emergency Contact – All Locations Get Travel Alerts International Parental Child Abduction Arrest of a U.S. Citizen Death of a U.S. Citizen Victims of Crime Emergency Financial Assistance