An official website of the United States government
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Worldwide Caution: The Department of State advises Americans worldwide to exercise increased caution.
Welcome to the U.S. Commercial Service Pakistan
The U.S. Commercial Service in Pakistan is responsible for U.S. export development activities in the country. We provide a number of services to the U.S. businesses in order to ensure that they have accurate information to develop successful export marketing strategies. It is our objective to provide export counseling and to promote U.S. products and services in Pakistan, in addition to counseling, advocating and protecting U.S. Commercial interests in the country.
Where we are located: U.S. Commercial Service Pakistan has its offices in three major cities (Islamabad, Karachi and Lahore) of the country.
Mr. Ayan Ali Khan
Commercial Specialist
Email: AyanAli.Khan@trade.gov
Mr. Hassan Raza
Commercial Specialist
Email: Hassan.Raza@trade.gov
Mr. Nathan Seifert
Commercial Counselor
Mr. Tashfeen Mehdi
Commercial Specialist
Email: tashfeen.mehdi@trade.gov
The U.S. Commercial Service in Pakistan offers a wide range of trade promotion services to both American Companies as well as Pakistani Companies. Our Commercial Specialists can help U.S. companies in identifying potential trade opportunities and trade partners by providing valuable market intelligence, potential and qualified business partners, and thus enabling a profitable business in Pakistan.
The U.S. Commercial Service (CS), part of the U.S. Department of Commerce’s International Trade Administration, offers companies a full range of expertise in international trade. Companies can find assistance locally in more than 100 U.S. Commercial Service offices nationwide and in more than 70 international offices.
The Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS) links U.S. agriculture to the world to enhance export opportunities and global food security. In addition to its Washington, D.C. staff, FAS has a global network of 98 offices covering 177 countries. These offices are staffed by agricultural attachés and locally hired agricultural experts who are the eyes, ears, and voice for U.S. agriculture around the world. FAS staff identify problems, provide practical solutions, and work to advance opportunities for U.S. agriculture and support U.S. foreign policy around the globe.
These reports on market conditions, opportunities, regulations, and business customs prepared at U.S. Embassies worldwide by the Department of Commerce Department, Department of State, and other U.S. agencies’ professionals.
The U.S. Department of State’s Investment Climate Statements provide country-specific information on the business climates of more than 170 countries and economies. They are prepared by economic officers stationed in embassies and posts around the world and analyze a variety of economies that are or could be markets for U.S. businesses of all sizes.
In 1985, the Overseas Security Advisory Council (OSAC), a joint venture between the Department of State and the U.S. private sector, created by then Secretary of State George P. Shultz under the Federal Advisory Committee Act to interact on overseas security problems of mutual concern. Objectives of this joint venture are: to establish a continuing liaison between security officials in both the private and public sector; to provide for regular exchanges of information concerning developments in the overseas security environment; recommend methods for planning and implementation of security programs abroad; and recommend methods to mitigate risks to American private sector interests worldwide. These objectives remain in the current OSAC Charter.
Since its inception, SelectUSA has facilitated more than $78 billion in investment, creating and/or retaining over 95,000 U.S. jobs. In fiscal year 2019 alone, SelectUSA facilitated more than $18.5 billion in investment. We work with the U.S. and Foreign Commercial Service and entities across government to facilitate job-creating business investment into the United States and raise awareness of the critical role that economic development plays in the U.S. economy.
We use cookies to make our website work better and improve your experience. By continuing to use the site, you agree to our privacy policy.
Please call: +92–51–201–4000 or 5000
Outside of Office Hours, contact: +92–51–201–4000 or 5000
Outside of Pakistan: 0092–51–201–4000 or 5000 or 1-888-407-4747
Emergency Contact – All Locations Get Travel Alerts International Parental Child Abduction Arrest of a U.S. Citizen Death of a U.S. Citizen Victims of Crime Emergency Financial Assistance