The Immigration Act of 1990 established the Diversity Visa (DV) program, where 55,000 immigrant visas would be available in an annual lottery, starting in fiscal year 1995. The lottery aims to diversify the immigrant population in the United States, by selecting applicants mostly from countries with low rates of immigration to the United States in the previous five years.
To apply for a diversity visa, follow the steps on the Diversity Visa Process on usvisas.state.gov. Once you have completed those steps, review the instructions given to you by the Kentucky Consular Center (KCC), along with the information presented on this website, for further guidance and instructions.
The Interview
After you have completed the steps on the Diversity Visa Process on usvisas.state.gov, including submitting the required immigrant visa application form (DS-260), you may receive an email from the Kentucky Consular Center (KCC) to let you know that an interview has been scheduled for you. The e-mail will instruct you to log into the Entrant Status Check on the Electronic Diversity Visa (E-DV) website , using your DV entry confirmation number, to view the date, time and location of your interview.
You can learn more about the interview process on usvisas.state.gov.
Case Status
At the end of your immigrant visa interview, the consular officer will inform you whether your visa application is approved or denied.
Some visa applications require further administrative processing , which takes additional time after the visa applicant’s interview by a consular officer. Applicants are advised of this requirement when they apply. Most administrative processing is resolved within 60 days of the visa interview. When administrative processing is required, the timing will vary based on the individual circumstances of each case. You can check the status of your visa application on ceac.state.gov .
If your visa has been denied, you may find useful information on ineligibilities and waivers on usvisas.state.gov.
After the Interview
If your visa has been approved, you will be informed how and when your passport and visa will be returned to you. Carefully review After the Interview on usvisas.state.gov to learn what to do when you receive your visa, entering the United States, paying the USCIS Immigrant Fee, and other important information.