An official website of the United States government
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Worldwide Caution: The Department of State advises Americans worldwide to exercise increased caution.
Learn, exchange, grow, and serve. The U.S. Department of State offers many programs for non-U.S. citizens wishing to come to the U.S. for cultural, educational, or professional exchange. These programs are augmented by local opportunities in countries around that world that allow non-U.S. citizens to explore U.S. culture and the English language. Learn more about the opportunities offered by the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs.
The United States supports international education and welcomes foreign students and exchange visitors. Before applying for a visa, students and exchange visitors must be accepted by their schools or program sponsors.
American English is a resource center for teaching and learning about American English.
The U.S. Department of State sponsors a wide range of exchange programs through which approximately 800 Pakistanis travel to the United States each year. We have programs spanning high school students to doctoral students to mid-career professionals!
Each of these programs has a different application process and timeline. Please review the details at the link below carefully.
So you want to study in the United States? Before anything else, see if you fit the following criteria.
The Regional English Language Office (RELO) is part of the Public Diplomacy Section of the United States Embassy in Pakistan. RELO Pakistan supports public diplomacy outreach through professional development and English language learning opportunities for English language teachers and learners throughout Pakistan.
Join the Exchange Alumni community portal and open the door to a world of resources and funding opportunities to help you build on the skills you gained during your exchange program:
For Exchange Alumni community portal log-in questions, reach out to: alumniwebsite@state.gov.
In addition, get up-to-date information on upcoming events and Exchange Alumni highlights in our quarterly international newsletter, and reach out to the nearest U.S. Embassy or Consulate to find out more about funding opportunities like the Alumni Engagement Innovation Fund (AEIF).
Don’t forget to connect with us online through LinkedIn , Facebook , and Instagram , sharing your successes by using #ExchangeAlumni when you post. Do you have a story you’d like to share? Feel free to reach out directly at exchangealumni@state.gov.
For more than 60 years, over 44,000 Pakistanis have participated in U.S. Government sponsored exchange programs to enhance people-to-people ties between Pakistan and the United States. Upon their return to Pakistan, U.S. exchange alumni make significant contributions to Pakistani society through government service, business leadership, and contributions to academia, arts, culture, and civil society. The U.S. Department of State, the U.S. Embassy in Islamabad, and the U.S. Consulates in Karachi, Lahore, and Peshawar are committed to supporting alumni initiatives in Pakistan that allow alumni to share their exchange experiences, and promote positive U.S.-Pakistan ties, with their own communities.
We use cookies to make our website work better and improve your experience. By continuing to use the site, you agree to our privacy policy.
Please call: +92–51–201–4000 or 5000
Outside of Office Hours, contact: +92–51–201–4000 or 5000
Outside of Pakistan: 0092–51–201–4000 or 5000 or 1-888-407-4747
Emergency Contact – All Locations Get Travel Alerts International Parental Child Abduction Arrest of a U.S. Citizen Death of a U.S. Citizen Victims of Crime Emergency Financial Assistance