An official website of the United States government
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Worldwide Caution: The Department of State advises Americans worldwide to exercise increased caution.
U.S. Embassy Islamabad is processing immigrant visas across all categories. However, with significant backlogs in most categories and continuing staffing shortages, wait times for interviews are lengthy. It is not possible to provide precise wait times as staffing and local conditions affect capacity and scheduling.
Looking for assistance from the Immigrant Visa Unit, U.S. Embassy, Islamabad?
Our Islamabad IV Navigator will help you find resources and information about immigrant visa services offered by U.S. Embassy, Islamabad.
You can click on Islamabad Immigrant Visa Navigator or scan the QR code to access it from your phone.
Immigrant visas to the United States are processed for citizens and residents of Pakistan at the U.S. Embassy in Islamabad.
To apply for an immigrant visa, a foreign citizen seeking to immigrate generally must be sponsored by a U.S. citizen or lawful permanent resident immediate relative(s), or prospective U.S. employer, and have an approved petition before applying for an immigrant visa. The sponsor begins the process by filing a petition on the foreign citizen’s behalf with U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). You may wish to review our Directory of Visa Categories on usvisas.state.gov to learn about the different types of immigrant visas to the United States, including our Diversity Visa Program. Then, follow the steps on the Immigrant Visa Process , or on the Diversity Visa Process , on usvisas.state.gov to begin the process for an immigrant visa petition.
Once USCIS has approved your petition and you have completed pre-processing with the National Visa Center (NVC), or if you have been selected in the Diversity Visa Lottery and completed processing with the Kentucky Consular Center (KCC), review the instructions given to you by the NVC or the KCC, along with the information presented on this website, for further guidance and instructions.
We use cookies to make our website work better and improve your experience. By continuing to use the site, you agree to our privacy policy.
Please call: +92–51–201–4000 or 5000
Outside of Office Hours, contact: +92–51–201–4000 or 5000
Outside of Pakistan: 0092–51–201–4000 or 5000 or 1-888-407-4747
Emergency Contact – All Locations Get Travel Alerts International Parental Child Abduction Arrest of a U.S. Citizen Death of a U.S. Citizen Victims of Crime Emergency Financial Assistance