An official website of the United States government
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Worldwide Caution: The Department of State advises Americans worldwide to exercise increased caution.
Effective August 11, 2025, all nonimmigrant visa applicants applying in Pakistan, including applicants under the age of 14 and over the age of 79, will generally require an in-person interview with a consular officer. Exceptions to this policy are detailed here .
Looking for assistance from the Nonimmigrant Visa Units at the U.S. Embassy Islamabad or the Consulate General Karachi?
Our NIV Navigator will help you find resources and information about nonimmigrant visa services offered by the U.S. Mission in Pakistan.
You can click on Nonimmigrant Visa Navigator or scan the QR code to access it from your phone.
The Nonimmigrant Visa Units of the U.S. Embassy in Islamabad and Consulate General Karachi are responsible for providing visa services to those seeking to enter the United States for a temporary period as tourists, business people, students, or specialty workers.
Visa interview scheduling, information services, fee collection, and document delivery in Pakistan are facilitated by a third-party company, CGI. Please visit CGI Pakistan’s website for complete information on applying for a nonimmigrant U.S. visa, including a directory of nonimmigrant visa categories .
U.S. Embassy Islamabad prioritizes students/exchange visitor visas (F and J) while Consulate General Karachi prioritizes students/exchange visitor visas (F and J) and temporary employee visas (H, L, O, P, E, I, R, Q, TD/TN, and C1D). Travelers with urgent (i.e., matter of life or death) travel needs should check the requirements and request an expedited appointment here .
Please note that certain cases might be eligible for a waiver of the in-person interview. These are B1/B2 applicants who received their previous full validity visa when they were at least 18 years of age and are renewing within 12 months of the prior visa’s expiration.
All nonimmigrant visa application fee (also known as the MRV fee) payments are valid for 365 days from the date a receipt is issued for payment of the MRV fee. Applicants must schedule an interview appointment or submit an interview waiver application during this 365-day period. Please note applicants are only required to schedule their interview or submit their waiver application within the 365-day period. It is not necessary that the interview must occur during the 365-day period.
The U.S. Consulate General in Karachi accepts applications for nonimmigrant visas to the United States. Nonimmigrant visas are for people who are visiting the U.S. temporarily for tourism, business, education, medical treatment, or petition-based employment. The type of visa required depends on your purpose of travel. Please visit the State Department’s website for information on the types of visas available for temporary visitors.
To apply for a visa, please visit https://ustraveldocs.com/pk/en/ to 1) fill out the nonimmigrant visa electronic application (DS-160) form here , 2) pay the application fee, and 3) schedule an appointment for a nonimmigrant visa interview.
With certain exceptions (e.g., Form I-20 for those applying for a student visa, Form DS-2019 for those applying for an exchange visitor visa, etc.), the U.S. Consulate has no specific list of supporting documentation that must be provided by visa applicants. Visa applicants should bring whatever documentation they believe would substantiate their position in Pakistan and their purpose of travel to the United States. The consular officer may or may not review this documentation at the time of the interview.
Please note that certain cases might be eligible for a wavier of the in-person interview. These are B1/B2 applicants who received their previous full validity visa when they were at least 18 years of age and are renewing within 12 months of the prior visa’s expiration.
We encourage all applicants to apply at least six months before their intended date of travel. We also recommend that travelers not purchase non-refundable or non-changeable airline tickets before being issued a U.S. visa.
Please note that some visa applications will require additional administrative processing. Applicants are informed at the time of the interview if such administrative processing is needed. While most administrative processing is resolved within 60 days of the interview, the exact timing varies from case to case. Before inquiring about the status of their case, applicants should wait at least 90 days from the date of the interview or submission of supplemental documents.
On the day of the scheduled interview, applicants must arrive at the consulate 15 minutes before the appointment time. The U.S. Consulate General Karachi is located at Plot No. 3-5, New TPX Area, Mai Kolachi Road, Karachi.
Emergency Appointments
If you have an unforeseen travel need(e.g., a medical emergency), you may qualify for an expedited appointment depending on availability at the Consulate. Please visit USTravelDocs  to ensure you meet the strict requirements for an expedited appointment. You may request an expedited appointment at that webpage.
Non-Immigrant Visa Inquiries
General Visa information and Requirements: http://travel.state.gov
Visa Application Information and Process in Pakistan: https://ustraveldocs.com/pk/en/
Email: support-pakistan@usvisascheduling.com
Telephone:(+92) (21) 111-234-111
The Visa Information Service call center (at the telephone number listed above) cannot provide information over the phone regarding the status of an application. If you require information regarding a pending application, please send your inquiry via the navigator. Please review all information carefully and completely. In almost all cases, the answers to your questions can be found on the websites listed above. If you send a query asking a question that can be answered using the information found on the aforementioned websites, you will not receive a reply. Please read all published information carefully.
We use cookies to make our website work better and improve your experience. By continuing to use the site, you agree to our privacy policy.
Please call: +92–51–201–4000 or 5000
Outside of Office Hours, contact: +92–51–201–4000 or 5000
Outside of Pakistan: 0092–51–201–4000 or 5000 or 1-888-407-4747
Emergency Contact – All Locations Get Travel Alerts International Parental Child Abduction Arrest of a U.S. Citizen Death of a U.S. Citizen Victims of Crime Emergency Financial Assistance