The Regional English Language Office (RELO) is part of the Public Diplomacy Section of the United States Embassy in Pakistan. RELO Pakistan supports public diplomacy outreach through professional development and English language learning opportunities for English language teachers and learners throughout Pakistan.
RELO Pakistan works with local and U.S.-based partners as well as alumni to build stronger links between Pakistan and the U.S. through programming that focuses on improving English language skills. Other areas addressed through this programming include vocational, cross-cultural, critical thinking, and information technology skills.
Regional English Language Programs
The English Language Specialist Program recruits U.S. academics in the fields of Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL) and Applied Linguistics for short-term virtual and in-person assignments to Pakistan. These assignments may include curriculum projects, professional development workshops, textbook development, English for Specific Purposes, and program evaluation. Please contact RELO Pakistan if your institution or association is interested in getting support from an English Language Specialist.
The English Access Microscholarship Program provides a foundation of English language, cross-cultural, leadership, and critical thinking skills to talented teenage Pakistani students from disadvantaged communities. The program includes a minimum of 360 hours of virtual and/or in-person instruction over two years. Since its inception in 2004, over 24,000 students in Pakistan have graduated from the program, joining over 150,000 Access alumni in more than 80 countries.
The English Works! Program is an intensive 240-hour English and employability skills development course for un-employed and under-employed 17 – 25 year-old Pakistanis. This six-month program is tailored to Pakistan’s vocational landscape and courses are offered virtually and/or in-person. Over 3,700 deserving youth from underserved communities have graduated from the program.
English Language Teaching Materials
The American English Website is a one-stop shop for teaching and learning English and exploring American culture. Multimedia content includes dozens of recorded webinars for teachers and downloadable articles, games, puzzles, and activities.
The English Teaching Forum Journal is a quarterly journal that is available online and in print. Content is written by educators, for educators, and includes practical suggestions for immediate classroom use. Additional sections include reading guides for professional development and profiles of English teaching classrooms around the globe. RELO Pakistan distributes 3,600 copies of Forum to educational institutions, Lincoln Corners, and English teaching enthusiasts every quarter.
Online Programs for Teachers and Learners
Online Professional English Network (OPEN) offers online graduate level classes to English teaching professionals through top U.S. universities. Courses include Integrating Critical Thinking, Teaching Grammar Communicatively, Using Educational Technology in the Classroom, Teaching English to Young Learners, Professional Development for Teacher Trainers, Content-based Instruction, TESOL Methodology, and Assessment of English Language Learners. Additional courses tailored to Pakistan’s specific needs are also offered.
Follow the RELO Pakistan Facebook page  for details on upcoming American English Live webinars, MOOCs, and scholarship opportunities.
Online Professional English Network (OPEN)
Other Exchange Programs
The Teaching Excellence and Achievement Program provides outstanding Pakistani secondary school teachers of English with a six-week academic program at a U.S. university.
The Fulbright Foreign Language Teaching Assistant Program [hyperlinked] provides young Pakistani teachers of English with the opportunity to refine their teaching skills and broaden their knowledge of American cultures and customs while strengthening the instruction of Urdu, Pashto, Punjabi, and other regional languages at colleges and universities in the United States.
The TESOL International Convention exchange includes both in person and virtual participation in this annual convention. TESOL is an international association of professionals working to advance English language teaching. RELO Pakistan is supporting the creation of PakTESOL , a teacher’s association for Pakistani educational professionals.https://pk.usembassy.gov/education-culture/relopakistan/
Contact Information
Office: +92-51-201-4000
Email: RELOPakistan@state.gov
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/RELOPakistan
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/relopakistan/
YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/channel/