The U.S. Department of State sponsors a wide range of exchange programs through which many Pakistanis travel annually to the United States. We have programs for students of all ages as well as mid-career professionals in a variety of fields!
Each of these programs has a different application process and timeline. Please review the details below carefully.
For high school students:
The Kennedy-Lugar Youth Exchange and Study Program (YES) provides scholarships for high school students aged 15 to 17 to spend up to one academic year in the United States. Students live with host families, attend high school, engage in activities to learn about American society and values, acquire leadership skills, and help educate Americans about Pakistan and Pakistani culture. Please visit http://us.iearn.org/program/yes-programs for more details.
TechGirls is an intensive summer exchange program that provides opportunities for young women aged 15 to 17 to pursue higher education and careers in STEM fields. Participants engage in hands-on skills development training with American technology experts, fostering leadership and technical expertise while building cross-cultural connections. For more details, please visit https://gbc-word-edit.officeapps.live.com/we/Home%20-%20TechGirls during recruitment seasons.
For undergraduate students:
The Study of the U.S. Institute for Student Leaders (SUSI) on Public Policy is an intensive short-term academic program for undergraduate student leaders aged 18 to 25, hosted by the University of Massachusetts. The program provides participants with a deeper understanding of the United States while enhancing their leadership skills through academic coursework, cultural activities, and networking opportunities. Further details about this program, visit https://pk.usembassy.gov/education/#exchanges during recruitment seasons.
The Study of the U.S. Institute (SUSI) for Albright Young Women Leaders is an academic exchange program for undergraduate women aged 18 to 25, hosted by the University of Kansas. The program enhances participants’ understanding of U.S. democratic principles, society, culture, values, and institutions while fostering leadership skills in areas such as critical thinking, communication, decision-making, and management. For more information, visit https://pk.usembassy.gov/education/#exchanges during recruitment seasons.
For individuals interested in graduate-level study:
The Fulbright Master’s and Ph.D. Programs fund graduate study for a Master’s or Ph.D. program in the United States. Applications are typically due in May. Please visit https://www.usefp.org/scholarships/fulbright-degree.cfm for more details.
The Hubert H. Humphrey Fellowship Program brings young and mid-career professionals from developing countries to the United States for a year of non-degree, graduate-level study and professional collaboration with U.S. counterparts, with professional focus areas that include public policy, educational administration, law and human rights, economic development, public health policy, journalism, and technology policy. Applications are typically due in July. Please visit https://www.usefp.org/scholarships/humphrey.cfm for more details.
The Fulbright Scholar Program funds up to 10 months of lectureship, post-doctoral research, or a combination of the two for selected Pakistani scholars at a U.S. college or university. Applications are typically due in October. Please visit https://www.usefp.org/scholarships/fulbright-scholar.cfm for more details.
For Educators:
The Fulbright Foreign Language Teaching Assistant program sends teachers of the English language to a U.S. institution to improve their English teaching skills. These participants also teach Urdu, Pashto, or Punjabi at selected U.S. campuses during their 9-month program. Applications are typically due in July.
Please visit https://www.usefp.org/scholarships/flta.cfm for more details.
For Space, Science, and Technology Enthusiasts:
NASA offers several online competitions for students and young leaders. For current student competitions, please visit: https://www.nasa.gov/stem (not all programs, opportunities, and competitions are open to international students).
For Professionals:
The Professional Fellows Exchange Program – Economic Empowerment is a five-week professional exchange program for mid-level emerging leaders aged 25 to 40 from Pakistan, India, Nepal and Kazakhstan. Participants work with small businesses in Oklahoma and collaborate with one of America’s leading universities. The program includes a professional fellowship placement at an American small business organization, providing hands-on experience in areas such as business ventures, administration, government, NGOs, business education, incubation hubs, community training programs, and social entrepreneurship. For more information, visit: http://www.ou.edu/web/
The Professional Fellows Program – Governance and Society is a two-way exchange program for emerging leaders aged 25 to 40 from India, Pakistan, Nepal, and the United States. Participants exchange ideas and best practices, enhance leadership skills, and build sustainable connections with professional counterparts. The program includes a professional fellowship placement with a U.S. organization or government office, offering participants an opportunity to deepen their understanding of the U.S. legislative process. For more information, visit https://www.worldlearning.org/program/professional-fellows-for-governance-and-society-south-and-central-asia/ .
For Aspiring Writers and Musicians:
Since 2012, One Beat has provided a unique opportunity for musicians aged 19 to 35 from around the world to spend one month in the United States each fall. Participants collaborate to write, produce, and perform original music, while developing strategies for arts-based social engagement. The program fosters cross-cultural connections and empowers artists to use music as a tool for positive social change. For more information, visit https://1beat.org/mission/ .
After an Exchange…
Exchange program participants have the opportunity to join the Pakistan-U.S. Alumni Network upon returning to Pakistan. For more information about our alumni programs, click here: https://pk.usembassy.gov/education/#alumni.
Additional Information
For additional details about exchange programs operated worldwide by the U.S. Department of State, please visit https://eca.state.gov/programs-initiatives