Fulbright Program
The Fulbright Program funds graduate study in the United States for a Master’s or Ph.D. degree. These grants cover tuition, required textbooks, airfare, a living stipend, health insurance, and assistance with the U.S. visa process. For more details, please visit the United States Educational Foundation in Pakistan’s (USEFP) website .
Fulbright Scholar Program
The Fulbright Scholar Program funds up to 12 months of lectureship, post-doctoral research or a combination of the two at a U.S. college or university. The grant funds airfare, an incidental research allowance, a living stipend, health insurance, and assistance with the U.S. visa application process. Further details can be obtained from the United States Educational Foundation in Pakistan’s (USEFP) website .
Youth Exchange and Study Program (YES)
This program provides scholarships for secondary school students (age 15-17) to spend one academic year in the United States and live with American host families. For more details, please visit the iEARN Pakistan’s website.
Global Undergraduate Program (UGRAD)
The Global Undergraduate Program (UGRAD) is designed for undergraduate students enrolled at a university in Pakistan. The program offers cultural and academic exchange through a non-degree program for a semester at a U.S. university or college. For more details, please visit the United States Educational Foundation in Pakistan’s (USEFP) website.
Community College Initiative Program
The Community College Initiative Program is designed to support young Pakistani professionals at accredited U.S. community colleges for one year of non-degree study. For more details, please visit the United States Educational Foundation in Pakistan’s (USEFP) website.
Near East & South Asia Undergraduate Exchange Program
The Near East and South Asia Program help undergraduates from Pakistan to study at a university in the U.S. for a year. Students in their first or second year of university (or the equivalent of years 13 and 14) as long as they have a year to complete their degree are eligible. For more details, please visit the United States Educational Foundation in Pakistan’s (USEFP) website.
U.S. Summer Sisters Exchange Program
The U.S. Summer Sisters Exchange Program provides opportunities for female high school students to study at an American university on an intensive summer exchange. Further details can be obtained from the iEARN Pakistan’s website .
Hubert H. Humphrey Fellowship Program
The Hubert H. Humphrey Fellowship Program brings accomplished mid-career Pakistani professionals with demonstrated leadership potential to the United States for a year of graduate-level non-degree academic coursework and professional development activities. For more details, please visit the United States Educational Foundation in Pakistan’s (USEFP) website .
Professional Partnership Program for Journalists
This program involves journalists from both countries working together and building professional relationships. Selected participants spend up to four weeks at a U.S newsroom. Further details can be obtained from the United States Educational Foundation in Pakistan’s (USEFP) website.
Professional Partnership Program for Public Administration
This program provides participants the opportunity to study public administration techniques and processes through two to four week internships with public administration organizations. For more details, please visit the United States Educational Foundation in Pakistan’s (USEFP) website .