FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
May 19, 2026
U.S. Embassy Islamabad and Pakistan Football Federation Kick Off Countdown to FIFA World Cup 2026™
Islamabad, May 19, 2026 – The U.S. Embassy in Islamabad, in collaboration with the Pakistan Football Federation (PFF), hosted a special kick‑off event at the embassy to mark the start of a countdown to the FIFA World Cup 2026™ and to spotlight the cultural and economic ties this global tournament creates.
Chargé d’Affaires (CDA) Natalie Baker and PFF President Syed Mohsen Gilani welcomed chief guest Minister of Railways Hanif Abbasi, Chairman of the Prime Minister’s Youth Programme Rana Mashood Ahmad Khan, a football manufacturing company, representatives of Coca‑Cola, McDonald’s, and members of the diplomatic and sports communities. Around 150 guests attended the event.
“President Trump has underscored the 2026 FIFA World Cup™ is a once-in-a-lifetime chance to showcase the beauty and greatness of America, and we are eager to welcome fans to the United States, especially as we get ready to celebrate our 250th birthday on July 4,” said CDA Baker.
CDA Baker added, “the 2026 FIFA World Cup™ is the start of an ‘American Decade of Sport.’ Between now and 2034, the United States is hosting at least 10 other major international sporting events, including the 2028 Summer Olympic and Paralympic Games in Los Angeles. These events will leave a legacy for all of us of stronger economies and deeper cultural connections. We look forward to sharing those experiences with our friends and partners in Pakistan.”
PFF President Gilani said, “it gives us great pleasure that we are launching this ceremonial event alongside the U.S. Embassy in Pakistan. The Pakistan national team might not have qualified for the World Cup but there is a wave of excitement in the country for the first-ever 48-team event in North America. The euphoria will reach fever pitch when the World Cup kicks off with each moment of the biggest football show on earth being celebrated across Pakistan. The United States will prove itself as an exemplary host as it welcomes the world for a celebration of the sport that we all love.”
PFF President Gilani added, “Football unites the world and hoped that the event will bring people closer.” He also hailed the United States’ exceptional capability to hold top sporting events with the FIFA World Cup™ to be followed by the 2028 Olympics in Los Angeles and the Rugby World Cup in 2031. He expressed his best wishes to the United States in its bid to host the 2031 FIFA Women’s World Cup in partnership with Mexico, Jamaica, and Costa Rica.
A highlight of the evening was the unveiling of an oversized football produced by a manufacturing company based in Sialkot, Punjab. CDA Baker, PFF President Gilani, and other guests joined in the unveiling. The formal program concluded with a ceremonial gift exchange and Coca-Cola’s recognition of two female Pakistan National Football players, after which guests were invited to participate in an informal penalty-kick challenge on the field.
###
REMARKS
U.S. Chargé d’Affaires Natalie Baker at the “FIFA World Cup 2026™ Kickoff Event” 
May 19, 2026
U.S. Embassy, Islamabad
Good evening, Minister Abbasi, Chairman of the Prime Minister’s Youth Program Rana Mashood Ahmad Khan, representatives of the Pakistan Football Federation, ambassadors, athletes, partners, friends and distinguished guests.
It is a pleasure to welcome you to the U.S. Embassy as the world prepares for the 2026 FIFA World Cup. In a few short weeks, the world will seem a little smaller as we all share in the highs and lows that the World Cup brings. Tonight we are celebrating the unique power of sport to bring communities and nations together – and I understand this is the first ever World Cup launch event that has happened here in Pakistan.
I want to start by thanking Mohsin and the Pakistan Football Federation for partnering with us on this event and McDonald’s, Coca Cola, and Forward Sports – all of you for your support here today. McDonald’s and Coca Cola, like many American businesses, not only operate here in Pakistan, but they truly invest in Pakistan and Pakistani communities. They contribute by supporting jobs, education, and they help to build lasting commercial ties between our countries and our communities.
I also have been extremely impressed by our partners at Forward Sports and the work they are doing here in Pakistan. Recently, I had the opportunity to visit Sialkot and to see in person the Forward Sports factory. It was incredibly exciting to see all the work that is being done right here in Pakistan to make a contribution to this year’s World Cup and many World Cups before this as well. I saw firsthand the craftsmanship and precision that go into producing world-class footballs. Right now I would like to share with you a short video on how these balls in Sialkot and how they will make their way into the biggest world stages in world football and into stadiums and football fields filled with fans from every corner of the globe.
Football is the world’s game because it speaks a universal language — one of teamwork, determination, discipline, and hope.
As you all know, the United States, together with Canada and Mexico, will proudly host the next World Cup in 2026 just a few weeks from now. And it’s set to be the largest World Cup in history with 48 national teams participating and that’s more than any World Cup has ever seen before. Some ambassadors representing countries playing in the World Cup are represented here tonight – thank you. Millions of fans from around the world will travel to North America to attend matches in 16 host cities. For the United States, this tournament is not only a major sporting event, but it’s also an opportunity to welcome the world and strengthen international connections through culture and through sport.
The World Cup is special because it inspires all of us, especially young people, to reach for our highest potential. It shows us that a team is greater than the sum of its parts. Whether on a neighborhood pitch in Islamabad or in a packed stadium during at the World Cup, football asks us to dream bigger and to work together.
The United States strongly believes in that power and the power of sports diplomacy. Through exchanges, youth engagement and partnerships like this one, we deepen ties between our countries and create lasting connections between our people.
President Trump has underscored that the 2026 FIFA World Cup is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to showcase the beauty and the greatness of America, and we all are here to welcome fans to the United States, especially as we get ready to celebrate our 250th birthday on July 4th.
The 2026 FIFA World Cup is the start of an “American Decade of Sport.” Between now and 2034, the United States is hosting at least 10 other major international sporting events, including the 2028 Summer Olympic and Paralympic Games in Los Angeles. These events will leave us with stronger economies and deeper cultural connections. We look forward to sharing those experiences with our friends and partners here in Pakistan.
Thank you all for joining in this celebration and in sharing in the World Cup journey.
###