An official website of the United States government
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Worldwide Caution: The Department of State advises Americans worldwide to exercise increased caution.
Effective January 21, 2026, the Department of State paused all immigrant visa issuances to nationals of countries, including Afghanistan and Pakistan, whose immigrants have a high rate of collecting public assistance at the expense of the U.S. taxpayer. Immigrant visa applicants who are nationals of impacted countries may submit visa applications and attend interviews, and the Department of State will continue to schedule consular appointments for visa interviews. Read more about the immigrant visa processing updates for nationalities at high risk of public benefits reliance.
Applicants for U.S. nonimmigrant visas should schedule their visa interview appointments at the U.S. Embassy or Consulate in their country of residence or nationality. Visa application fees are non-refundable and non-transferable. For more information, visit travel.state.gov .
All individuals applying for an A-3, C-3 (if a domestic worker), G-5, H1-B, H-3, H-4 dependent of H-1B and H-3, F, M, J, K-1, K-2, K-3, Q, R-1, R-2, S, T, or U nonimmigrant visa are instructed to adjust the privacy setting on all social media accounts to “public” or “open” to facilitate vetting necessary to establish their identity and admissibility to the United States under U.S. law. More information is available at travel.state.gov .
Pursuant to Presidential Proclamation 10998 on Restricting and Limiting the Entry of Foreign Nationals to Protect the Security of the United States, which takes effect at 12:01 a.m. Eastern Standard Time on January 1, 2026, the United States is suspending or limiting entry and visa issuance to nationals of 39 countries as well as individuals applying using travel documents issued or endorsed by the Palestinian Authority. Applicants who are subject to Presidential Proclamation 10998 may still submit visa applications and attend scheduled interviews, but they may be ineligible for visa issuance or admission to the United States. For additional details, visit travel.state.gov .
Effective immediately, the Department of State has paused all visa issuances to diversity immigrant visa applicants. For additional details, visit travel.state.gov here .
A citizen of a foreign country who seeks to enter the United States generally must first obtain a U.S. visa, which is placed in the traveler’s passport.
Certain international travelers may be eligible to travel to the United States without a visa under the Visa Waiver Program, which is administered by the Department of Homeland Security DHS.
The Visa section of this website is about U.S. visas for foreign citizens and nationals to travel to the United States.
Visit Travel.State.gov for additional information.
Note: U.S. citizens do not need a U.S. visa for travel to the United States. When planning travel abroad a U.S. citizen may need a visa issued by the embassy or consulate of the country they wish to visit .
For short-term visits to the United States (for tourism, business, education, and more), you can go directly to the online application (form DS-160 ). For immigrant visas, which are issued to foreign nationals who intend to live and work permanently in the United States, you can visit the U.S. citizenship and Immigration Services site for the relevant forms. If you are unsure what type of visa you need, please use the Visa Wizard below.
For all visa-related inquiries, please start with our navigators listed below.
The visa section of the U.S. Embassy, Islamabad, conducts immigrant and nonimmigrant visa interviews, by appointment only.
Hours:
8:00 am to 1:00 pm, Monday through Friday, except for Pakistani and American public holidays and administrative closures.
This pamphlet informs you of your legal rights in the United States as a nonimmigrant visa holder in certain employment- and education-based categories.
This pamphlet informs applicants applying for K-1 visas, K-3, IR-1/CR-1 immigrant visas, and F2A immigrant visas of their legal rights in the United States relating to domestic violence, sexual assault, and child abuse.
Our goal is to inspire people from around the world to discover all the exciting travel possibilities in the United States.
Browse 180 pages packed with beautiful photography, detailed location descriptions and real travel stories.
No matter your destination or travel style, create a personalized, day-by-day itinerary that’s just right for you.
Watch our videos to learn about the diverse destinations and exciting travel experiences, all within your reach.
We use cookies to make our website work better and improve your experience. By continuing to use the site, you agree to our privacy policy.
Please call: +92–51–201–4000 or 5000
Outside of Office Hours, contact: +92–51–201–4000 or 5000
Outside of Pakistan: 0092–51–201–4000 or 5000 or 1-888-407-4747
Emergency Contact – All Locations Get Travel Alerts International Parental Child Abduction Arrest of a U.S. Citizen Death of a U.S. Citizen Victims of Crime Emergency Financial Assistance