An official website of the United States government
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Worldwide Caution: The Department of State advises Americans worldwide to exercise increased caution.
Insert Local Payment information here.
For all immigrant visa-related inquiries, please start with our Islamabad Immigrant Visa Navigator.
For all non-immigrant visa-related inquiries, please start with our Nonimmigrant Visa Navigator.
Also, you may email us at:
support-pakistan@usvisascheduling.com
Or call us at:
Pakistan: 021-111-234-111
United States: (703) 988-3426
Nonimmigrant Visa Inquiries
Check the status of your case at https://ceac.state.gov/CEAC/ .
U.S. Embassy in Islamabad
Diplomatic Enclave, Ramna 5
U.S. Embassy Islamabad
Pakistan
The Consular Section of the U.S. Embassy in Islamabad is located in the Diplomatic Enclave in Islamabad. To visit the Consular Section for an interview you must take the diplomatic shuttle from the Diplomatic Shuttle Service building located at Avenue 3, Quaid-i-Azam University road in sector G-5. Please arrive at the shuttle service building 30 minutes prior to your appointment. The shuttle will take you to the Consular Section’s reception area where guards will conduct a screening and bring you inside the section.
U.S. Consulate General Karachi
Plot 3, 4, 5, New TPX Area
Mai Kolachi Road, Karachi
What Not to Bring to the Interview
Visa applicants and United States citizens visiting the American Citizen Services section will not be allowed to enter U.S. Embassy Islamabad while carrying any of the following items:
This list is not a complete list. Other items may be prohibited at the discretion of the security staff.
The Embassy has NO storage available for holding cell phones or other electronic devices for applicants on the day of their interview. Applicants should make arrangements to store these items at the shuttle service before arriving at the Embassy. If you bring prohibited items with you to the Embassy, you will have to dispose of them before entry.
If you need reasonable accommodation for your appointment, we encourage you to request your accommodation immediately once you schedule your appointment. We make every effort to provide accommodations to persons with disabilities and medical conditions. Reasonable accommodations vary, depending on the situation and the person’s needs.
Examples of accommodations include, but are not limited to:
If you are unable to provide fingerprints because of a medical condition, including birth defects, physical deformities, skin conditions, you may qualify for a fingerprint waiver for certain fingers.
The waiting room of the Consular Section and its restroom is wheelchair accessible.
We use cookies to make our website work better and improve your experience. By continuing to use the site, you agree to our privacy policy.
Please call: +92–51–201–4000 or 5000
Outside of Office Hours, contact: +92–51–201–4000 or 5000
Outside of Pakistan: 0092–51–201–4000 or 5000 or 1-888-407-4747
Emergency Contact – All Locations Get Travel Alerts International Parental Child Abduction Arrest of a U.S. Citizen Death of a U.S. Citizen Victims of Crime Emergency Financial Assistance