With the Quick-Check, you can check your options of working and living in Germany.
Are you interested in a job in Germany? Click the button down below to find advice on job searching, learn where to find support and discover what's important when applying for jobs in Germany.
Whether you are coming to Germany for work, studies or vocational training, this page provides essential information on visas and entry. By following the outlined details, you will succeed in your application process step by step.
Do you need support with your job search, the recognition of your qualifications or residence matters? A range of services, such as webinars, events and advice centres in Germany, are here to help!
Experience a country where people from over 190 nations shape the future together and benefit from a strong network to help you start your journey in Germany.
German companies place great importance on equal opportunities and diversity, fostering fairness and mutual respect in the workplace.
Whether you choose academic studies or vocational training, German qualifications enjoy an excellent global reputation and open up numerous career opportunities.
From Studies to a Job in Germany: Success Story of an International Student
I have been living in Germany for seven years.I completed my bachelor's degree in civil engineering in Iran. Then I worked self-employed for three years and then I came to Germany. Now I work as an energy efficiency expert and it was a long journey and also a tough one, but it was worth it.
My name is Sina. I come from Iran, I am 32 years old and I did my master's in Green Building Engineering at TH Köln.
At the very beginning, I had just finished my bachelor's degree, a friend of mine wanted to go to Germany and Austria and had taken a German course. He told me "Sina, you speak English—if you want, you can simply learn a new language. And if you're interested, you can of course also go to Germany to continue studying."
I'm the kind of person who has to plan everything. That means I definitely had to know beforehand: What about the visa? What about the work permit? For example, is it expensive to study here? How does finding an apartment work? All of these topics play a big role, of course. But sometimes there are surprises too.
I was really happy, I wanted to start university life and experience a bit of uni life here in Germany, and then COVID happened. And that was really bad luck for me.
But then I was saved by living in a shared flat. I was lucky. I found a shared flat with two roommates who were both German. I was able to improve my German and for me that opportunity was also an open door to the culture, to life in Germany and also to learning the language. To speak German, you just can't be afraid, you simply have to do it. And at some point you get into it and you keep learning better and better. Just do it!
I think Sina is simply someone who dares to speak. And from the very beginning we spoke German with each other. For us that was never a negative topic, but rather something that was always impressive to us, how quickly Sina learned and made progress.
I came to Germany as a student, meaning on a student visa. And for that you need a few requirements: One of the most important is financing. You have to prove it somehow, either with a blocked account or with something else. And of course I did that too. I also had various side jobs and at some point I said that I'd like to get into my field. And I applied, just like everyone else, to job postings online. And that's how I ended up at INDICAMUS. We do energy-efficient refurbishments of buildings and I also advise homeowners' associations.
We noticed early on that Sina brings not only professional expertise, but is also extremely good at teamwork. What we really value here as a young team is that we grow together. And Sina has since moved up into a leading role and has become an important part of our company.
I'm really proud that I do everything in German. And I'm also really proud that I do work that truly makes sense. And I have my job and my colleagues, and it's really fun working with them. That's why I'd say Germany means a lot to me and I almost count it as a second home.
One of the difficulties, I'd say, is extending your visa here. And there is a lot of bureaucracy in Germany. We all know that. And that's something that could maybe be improved. But in the end it worked out, and it was worth it that I'm now at INDICAMUS.
I'd say deciding from the outside whether you can work here is not that easy. For me it was like this: I first started studying here, and then I realized: "Yes, I can also imagine working here." And it worked out well. Here I got a feel for German culture. How does it work? Is it something for me or not? And then just try things out step by step. And at some point it worked, and then I saw: "It's for me."
The most important thing here is to speak German. And I would definitely recommend: Go up to people. Join in with everything: parties, after-work beers. Be open to simply having fun with people, and at the same time you can also get to know this culture.
I'd just be open and honest and say: Yes, it's difficult. But in the end it's worth it!
This is how Sina, an international student, built his career as an energy efficiency expert in Germany.
Learn how the fast-track procedure for skilled workers helped Marah enter Germany.
As a skilled worker in electrical engineering, Jamal actively contributes to Germany's shift towards clean energy.
Christian swapped university life for patient care and is now training to become a nursing professional.
International skilled workers reveal their tips for mastering the German language.
Receive advice on your opportunities to work and live in Germany. Expert support is offered for questions regarding job search, visas, recognition of qualifications and learning German.
Click the icons in the bar below to discover all contact options.