"Make it in Germany" has a strong partner network. Here you can find an overview of cooperation partners, supporters and other portals cooperating with the German federal government's portal.
The multilingual portal "Recognition in Germany" provides information on how foreign professional qualifications can be recognised in Germany. With only a few clicks, the "Recognition Finder" helps users to find the competent authority for their application.
The BQ-Portal (The information portal for foreign professional qualifications) offers a wide range of information about foreign professional qualifications and vocational training systems. The portal enables a quick and consistent evaluation of foreign professional qualifications.
The multilingual portal "deutschland.de", which cooperates with the Federal Foreign Office, gives users a contemporary image of Germany in a modern and understandable way. It reports on current topics of
different categories and additionally informs you of Germany’s international relations.
The "Integration through Qualification (IQ)" programme aims to enable immigrants with foreign degrees and vocational qualifications to gain access to employment appropriate to their level of education in Germany.
ProRecognition has been funded by the Federal Ministry of Education and Research since 2015 and is coordinated by DIHK Service GmbH. The project advises prospective immigrants on the opportunities for professional recognition in their home country and is represented at the Foreign Chambers of Commerce worldwide.
The competence center for securing skilled labour (KOFA) aims to support small and medium-sized enterprises (SME) with securing their supply of qualified professionals and with shaping their human ressources work. They learn to position themselves as attractive employers and to stay competitive with qualified employees.
Research in Germany is the central information platform of the initiative to "Promote Innovation and Research in Germany” launched by the Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF). The portal provides foreign scientists and researchers with an overview of the research and funding opportunities in Germany and supports the preparation for a research stay.
The Goethe-Institut’s web portal “Mein Weg nach Deutschland” is geared towards not only newly immigrated people, but also people who plan on immigrating to Germany due to professional or private reasons. It offers helpful information on living and working in Germany in 30 languages, as well as practice exercises for learning German from level A1 to B2.
The German Competence Centre for International Skilled Workers in the Health and Nursing Professions (DKF) advocates for an appreciative, fair and sustainable recruitment of internationally trained skilled nursing professionals.
In order to keep you up to date and properly informed with this portal, the following partners work closely together: