Do you have employment in Germany that is subject to social security contributions? Find out more about what that means here.
If you are a skilled professional returning to Germany after a longer stay abroad, your prospects of getting a foot back on the ladder are excellent. If you have been seconded to a post abroad, your company will probably refer you to a relocation agency that will give you all the information you need and take care of the most important work. However, if you are planning your return by yourself, there are a few points to consider. Our "Jobs" section has answers to many important questions around issues such as applying for a new job in Germany, social security and the German tax system. For information on family reunification, schools, kindergarten or flat hunting, please consult our "Living in Germany" section and our "Study & vocational training" section. You can obtain advice on open questions or placement support in the run-up to your return and an individual returnee information package from the Federal Employment Agency (BA) here (External link) .
Social security
If your job in Germany is subject to social security contributions, your employer is required to register you with the statutory social security providers (unemployment, pension, health, disability care and accident insurance). Your employer's HR department should do this automatically as soon as you start your job – provided that you and your family have registered with a German health insurance company. Click here (External link) for additional information on the social security systems in the EU, the EEA and Switzerland.
Your first pay slip will state the amount you and your employer are paying in social security contributions. This makes it easy for you to check that your employer has actually registered you.
In 2009, Germany made it mandatory for every person living in the country to take up health insurance, either under the statutory system or from a private provider. So do not forget to register yourself and your family with a healthcare provider as soon as you arrive in Germany. Whether you are eligible for private or statutory healthcare or can choose between the two will depend on the type of insurance you had prior to leaving Germany, on the length of your stay abroad, and on your job in Germany. If you are returning from an EU Member State, a country within the EEA or Switzerland, you should ask your insurance provider to issue form E 104 to you. This form will serve as proof of insurance for the time you had insurance cover under the foreign country's healthcare system. This will help ensure that you can benefit from full coverage as soon as you come back.
Your initial point of contact should be the healthcare provider you had before leaving Germany. Ask them about the insurance plans you can choose between when you come back to Germany.
Pension insurance
You may be entitled to transfer the pension entitlements you have obtained abroad to Germany. However, this only applies to Switzerland and countries in the EU and the EEA if you spent at least a year working in those countries. You will need to furnish form PD U1 (External link) as proof of insurance. Click here (External link) to go to a register of foreign agencies that can issue form PD U1. If in doubt, contact Deutsche Rentenversicherung (German Pension Insurance (External link) ) (External link) for advice.
It is a good idea to collect all your certificates, diplomas etc. that can serve as proof of employment.
- Federal Employment Agency Webinar: Your return to Germany
- German Pension Insurance Information on international provisions around pensions
- Alumniportal Deutschland Social networking for alumni of German universities, including job offers
- Raphaelswerk e.V. Personal advice
Receive advice on your opportunities to work and live in Germany. Expert support is offered for questions regarding job search, visas, recognition of qualifications and learning German.
Click the icons in the bar below to discover all contact options.