Certain professions in Germany are in high demand. Discover in which industries professionals have great opportunities!
Germany currently does not suffer from a shortage of skilled workers on a national scale, however in some occupational fields and regions, there is a scarcity of qualified professionals. Occupations in the sciences, engineering, and in health care are affected the most. The staffing difficulties occurring in the different sectors also strongly depend on the level of qualification. A distinction is made between three groups: skilled professionals are persons who have completed at least two years of vocational training or a comparable qualification; specialists are workers with a master craftsperson's or technician's training, an academic degree or a comparable qualification; experts are persons who have at least a four-year university education or equivalent qualification.
The current skilled worker shortage in specific occupational groups or regions cannot be reduced in its entirety with the available supply of labour. For instance, there is a lack of skilled workers in geriatric nursing, specialists in general nursing care and experts in IT occupations such as software development and programming.
Aside from the automotive sector, Germany is known worldwide for its exceptional dual education system in companies and vocational schools. Since the economy is growing and companies need more qualified professionals, the chances of securing a traineeship in Germany are also growing, because thousands of vacancies remain open – 69,405 as of 2024. In Germany, especially small and medium-sized businesses are facing great difficulties in finding suitable trainees and therefore they look beyond national borders: even people who are not from the EU may – under certain circumstances – undertake a vocational training course in Germany. In any case, the vocational training market in Germany is open to EU nationals. Regardless of your country of origin, vocational training in Germany gives you a good chance of entering the German labour market.
Receive advice on your opportunities to work and live in Germany. Expert support is offered for questions regarding job search, visas, recognition of qualifications and learning German.
Click the icons in the bar below to discover all contact options.