Are you looking for skilled workers for your company? With our "Make it in Germany" webinar series, you can get information easily and conveniently from your office or home.
All current webinars for 2026 are listed here.
12 August 2026: Attracting International Apprentices – from Outreach to Integration
When: Wednesday, 12 August 2026, from 2:00 to 3:00 p.m.
Expert: Make it in Germany
Language: German
Would you like to recruit apprentices from abroad? In this webinar, you will learn how to specifically address international prospective apprentices, which entry pathways are available, and how to ensure successful integration into your company. The webinar offers practical insights and gives you the opportunity to ask your questions during a Q&A session.
09 September 2026 - Recognition of Foreign Qualifications – Process and Practical Tips
When: Wednesday, 09 september 2026, from 2:00 to 3:00 p.m.
Expert: Make it in Germany
Language: German
Assessing and having foreign qualifications officially recognised is a key step when hiring international skilled workers. In this webinar, you will learn about the requirements for the recognition procedure, how the process works step by step, and what practical tips can help you navigate it successfully. A Q&A session at the end gives you the opportunity to ask your specific questions.
13 October 2026: Hiring International Skilled Workers: The Fast-Track Procedure in Practice
When: Tuesday, 13 October 2026, 1:00 pm to 2:00 pm
Expert: Central Office for the Fast-Track Procedure for Skilled Workers at the Lower Saxony State Reception Authority
Language: German
The fast-track procedure for skilled workers can, in many cases, shorten administrative processes for the entry of your new skilled worker. In this webinar, experts from the Central Office for the Fast-Track Procedure for Skilled Workers at the Lower Saxony State Reception Authority will explain the individual steps for employers - from the power of attorney to the pre-approval of the visa. You will also receive practical tips for submitting the application and have the opportunity to ask your questions during a Q&A session.
Please note: Only general questions can be addressed; individual cases cannot be discussed.