02/07/2021: The German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD) organizes virtual education fairs to attract prospective students from around the world and inspire them to study in Germany. There, German universities have the opportunity to present their primarily English-language study programs to an international audience. At the same time, the DAAD answers general questions about studying and living in Germany.
Not only the university, but also the proximity to business is important
The question of what options graduates have on the German job market after completing their studies has long been significant for international students and is becoming more and more important. In particular, the support they can expect from universities for making contact with industry influences their choice of university. Universities that have close links to regional businesses and thus offer students internships, for example, in order to gain an initial insight into the German working world, are particularly popular. The DAAD regularly addresses this topic in its virtual fairs, for example with the 'Student Talks', in which international students and graduates of German universities talk about their path to Germany and their study and work experiences in Germany.
Joint advisory services with 'Make it in Germany'
Selected Study in Germany fairs also focus on what comes after graduation - for example, the virtual fairs 'Study and Career in Germany' and 'German-language degree programs' which have already been held several times. The virtual fair 'Study and Career in Germany' in March 2021 attracted over 1,400 visitors. 'German-language degree programs' was also no less successful in April 2021, with approximately 2,500 people attending the virtual fair.
In order to provide good advice to the fair visitors, the DAAD and "Make it in Germany" work hand in hand. At both events, almost half of all visitors visited the "Make it in Germany" booth to get advice via chat and to download documents offered. In addition to the DAAD and the participating universities as contact partners for prospective students, the good acceptance of the "Make it in Germany" stand very clearly shows the thirst for knowledge of those seeking advice.
For interested parties:
The virtual fairs are held regularly under the umbrella of the "Study in Germany - Land of Ideas" campaign initiated by the Federal Ministry of Research, Technology and Space (BMFTR). In the calendar of events (External link) you can continuously inform yourself about the virtual fairs organized by the DAAD.
We would like to thank our colleagues from the DAAD's “International University Marketing” Department for this guest contribution!
Receive advice on your opportunities to work and live in Germany. Expert support is offered for questions regarding job search, visas, recognition of qualifications and learning German.
Click the icons in the bar below to discover all contact options.