Have you graduated or are you about to graduate from university in Germany? Here are some suggestions for what to do after you graduate.
Once you have successfully completed your studies in Germany, there are many options open to you - from starting a career straight away to a doctorate, self-employment or alternatively vocational training. Find out here about your options after graduation, how you can organise your stay in Germany and what legal requirements apply.
If you wish to continue living in Germany after your studies, you must apply for the appropriate residence title before your study permit expires.
If you come from the EU, Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Norway or Iceland, you do not need a visa or residence permit to live and work in Germany. You can find more information on this topic in the section “Information for EU citizens”.
If you are from a third country, you have the possibility of obtaining a residence permit valid for up to 18 months to look for qualified employment. During these 18 months, you are allowed to take up any type of job. Please note that this type of residence permit is not renewable. The following requirements must be met in order to obtain a residence permit for 18 months:
- Proof of successfully completed studies
- Proof of health insurance cover
- Proof of being able to secure your livelihood
Before submitting your application, find out from the competent foreigners authority what documents you need to submit. Some foreigners authorities also offer relevant information on the internet.
To be successful in your job search, you need to put together an attractive application portfolio to present yourself in the best possible light to potential employers. You can find out how to write applications and other tips for jobseekers in the "Looking for a job" section. You can also search and apply for jobs directly from our job listings.
If you are from a third country and have an offer of a qualified job, you can apply for a residence permit for qualified employment or an EU Blue Card. Note that your job does not necessarily have to be related to your qualifications (with the exception of the EU Blue Card). However, you will need a licence to practise if you want to work in a regulated profession. You will need to present the following supporting documents:
- Proof of successfully completed studies
- Proof of health insurance cover
- Concrete job offer
As the choice of residence title depends largely on your personal situation, you should seek advice from your foreigners authority when applying. You can also obtain a residence permit if you have been offered a part-time job, as long as the expected salary is sufficient to cover your living costs. The foreigners authority is the sole decision-making body in this matter.
There are many reasons to become self-employed in Germany. If you are interested, you might want to contact a start-up advisory service.
If you come from a third country, you will need the appropriate residence permit, according to your business venture. Read more about this topic in the "Visa for self-employment" section.
Another option for university graduates is to do a doctorate. Germany’s universities, research institutions and research companies welcome international researchers – and the German doctorate is highly regarded around the world.
The Research in Germany (External link) portal provides key information on doing a doctorate in Germany, including funding and support opportunities. In Germany, most doctoral students either work at a university or receive a grant for their research.
If you are from a third country and want to do a doctorate in Germany, you will need either a residence permit for study purposes, a residence title for research purposes or an EU Blue Card, depending on how much you work and earn during your doctorate. You can apply for a residence permit at your local foreigners authority. Before you apply, find out from them what documents you need to submit.
Do you want to continue learning while gaining more practical experience in a company? Then vocational education and training could be an option for you. Germany has an excellent vocational education and training system. Dual training involves learning a specific trade in a company and attending vocational school. Read more about this in the “Vocational training in Germany” section.
If you are from a third country, you must apply for a residence permit to complete vocational training. The foreigners authority will decide on your application. Before you apply, find out from the foreigners authority what documents you need to submit.
Many universities support their (international) students free of charge as they embark on their careers. Career centres/services or the International Offices provide tips for applications, organise job fairs and establish contacts with companies in the region.
Find out from your university's student services which programmes are available to you.
The DAAD's “Campus Initiative for International Talents” helps German universities to better prepare international students and graduates for the German labour market. This includes the programmes “FIT” (Promotion of international talents for integration into studies and the labour market) and “Profi plus” (Academic Training for the German Labour Market). There are more than 100 projects in total at many different universities. The offers range from language courses and mentoring programmes to work shadowing in companies. You can find all the programmes and universities in this interactive map (External link) .
From Studies to a Job in Germany: Success Story of an International Student
I have been living in Germany for seven years.I completed my bachelor's degree in civil engineering in Iran. Then I worked self-employed for three years and then I came to Germany. Now I work as an energy efficiency expert and it was a long journey and also a tough one, but it was worth it.
My name is Sina. I come from Iran, I am 32 years old and I did my master's in Green Building Engineering at TH Köln.
At the very beginning, I had just finished my bachelor's degree, a friend of mine wanted to go to Germany and Austria and had taken a German course. He told me "Sina, you speak English—if you want, you can simply learn a new language. And if you're interested, you can of course also go to Germany to continue studying."
I'm the kind of person who has to plan everything. That means I definitely had to know beforehand: What about the visa? What about the work permit? For example, is it expensive to study here? How does finding an apartment work? All of these topics play a big role, of course. But sometimes there are surprises too.
I was really happy, I wanted to start university life and experience a bit of uni life here in Germany, and then COVID happened. And that was really bad luck for me.
But then I was saved by living in a shared flat. I was lucky. I found a shared flat with two roommates who were both German. I was able to improve my German and for me that opportunity was also an open door to the culture, to life in Germany and also to learning the language. To speak German, you just can't be afraid, you simply have to do it. And at some point you get into it and you keep learning better and better. Just do it!
I think Sina is simply someone who dares to speak. And from the very beginning we spoke German with each other. For us that was never a negative topic, but rather something that was always impressive to us, how quickly Sina learned and made progress.
I came to Germany as a student, meaning on a student visa. And for that you need a few requirements: One of the most important is financing. You have to prove it somehow, either with a blocked account or with something else. And of course I did that too. I also had various side jobs and at some point I said that I'd like to get into my field. And I applied, just like everyone else, to job postings online. And that's how I ended up at INDICAMUS. We do energy-efficient refurbishments of buildings and I also advise homeowners' associations.
We noticed early on that Sina brings not only professional expertise, but is also extremely good at teamwork. What we really value here as a young team is that we grow together. And Sina has since moved up into a leading role and has become an important part of our company.
I'm really proud that I do everything in German. And I'm also really proud that I do work that truly makes sense. And I have my job and my colleagues, and it's really fun working with them. That's why I'd say Germany means a lot to me and I almost count it as a second home.
One of the difficulties, I'd say, is extending your visa here. And there is a lot of bureaucracy in Germany. We all know that. And that's something that could maybe be improved. But in the end it worked out, and it was worth it that I'm now at INDICAMUS.
I'd say deciding from the outside whether you can work here is not that easy. For me it was like this: I first started studying here, and then I realized: "Yes, I can also imagine working here." And it worked out well. Here I got a feel for German culture. How does it work? Is it something for me or not? And then just try things out step by step. And at some point it worked, and then I saw: "It's for me."
The most important thing here is to speak German. And I would definitely recommend: Go up to people. Join in with everything: parties, after-work beers. Be open to simply having fun with people, and at the same time you can also get to know this culture.
I'd just be open and honest and say: Yes, it's difficult. But in the end it's worth it!
Receive advice on your opportunities to work and live in Germany. Expert support is offered for questions regarding job search, visas, recognition of qualifications and learning German.
Click the icons in the bar below to discover all contact options.