Would you like to work, study, complete vocational training or move to Germany with your family? People requiring a visa must hold an entry visa to do so. The type of visa you must apply for depends on the reason for your visit or stay. Get to know everything about the types of visa and which requirements have to be met.
Having numerous advantages, the EU Blue Card is one of the most popular resident titles for highly skilled workers. It is best to verify right away whether you are eligible for an EU Blue Card.
The work visa for skilled workers provides you with direct access to the German job market. Read more on what requirements you must meet in order to work as a skilled worker in Germany.
Third-country nationals with a foreign qualification and extensive professional experience have the opportunity to work in a non-regulated profession in Germany, even if their qualification is not formally recognised.
Do you want to be able to practise your profession while going through the recognition procedure? A recognition partnership could be an option for you. Find out more about the recognition partnership visa.
In Germany, qualified and experienced skilled workers in IT are in high demand. Coming from abroad, there are a lot of options to receive a work visa – with or without a formal qualification certificate.
For many international skilled workers, the professional recognition is a basic requirement in order to receive access to the German job market. Inform yourself in advance on whether you require a visa for that purpose.
Are you interested in completing vocational training in Germany? Do you require a visa or a residence permit in order to do that? We will show you how it works.
A student visa makes a stay in Germany for study purposes possible. Moreover, employment during and after your studies is an option. We will explain what you need to consider.
Here you can find information on other visa options for people who plan a longer stay in Germany – whether it is for language learning or for work purposes in certain professions.