This overview shows which residence titles are available for IT professionals and the requirements that apply to each option.
IT is one of the most important industries in Germany. Explore the opportunities available to you as an IT specialist in Germany.
If you have a formally recognised academic or tertiary-level qualification in IT and have a concrete job offer in Germany, you can obtain an EU Blue Card. In this case, it is important that your job in Germany pays a certain minimum salary.
Even if you do not have such a qualification, you can still obtain an EU Blue Card if you have gained knowledge and skills from at least three years’ work experience in a similar profession within the last seven years. The EU Blue Card is a very popular residence title that offers you many advantages.
A residence permit for qualified employment (under Section 18a or Section 18b of the Residence Act (External link) [AufenthG]) may apply to you if you have completed training or a degree in IT that is recognised in Germany or is equivalent, but you do not meet the requirements for an EU Blue Card.
You can work as an IT specialist in Germany even if you do not have a formal non-academic vocational qualification or academic qualification, as long as you can prove that you have work experience in the IT sector. For more information about this type of visa, refer to the “Visa for professionally experienced workers” section.
A concrete job offer is the most important requirement and the first step towards your IT career in Germany, regardless of the type of residence title residence title you are applying for. You can therefore find out more about working as an IT specialist in Germany here.
- Federal Foreign Office (FFO) You can find out which visa you need in order to come to Germany with the Visa-Navigator.
- Federal Office for Migration and Refugees (BAMF) Centre of Excellence for Asylum, Migration and Integration in Germany
Receive advice on your opportunities to work and live in Germany. Expert support is offered for questions regarding job search, visas, recognition of qualifications and learning German.
Click the icons in the bar below to discover all contact options.