This guide shows the requirements that must be met for a language acquisition visa and describes how the visa procedure works in order to enter Germany.
Would you like to learn German in Germany? Find out how to get a visa for language acquisition.
You can take German language courses not only abroad, but also in Germany. A visa for language acquisition under Section 16f (1) of the Residence Act (AufenthG) (External link) permits entry and residence for this purpose.
To find out if you need a visa to enter Germany, please refer to the “Do I need a visa?” section.
What are the requirements for a language course visa?
- You have been admitted to an intensive German language course. Courses consisting of daily German lessons with a minimum of 18 lessons of instruction per week are generally considered to be intensive language courses. Evening and weekend courses are not sufficient.
- You are able to cover your living costs for the duration of your stay. Evidence can be provided by means of a blocked bank account or a declaration of commitment.
Do you fulfil these requirements? Learn about the procedure for the entry and visa process.
If you want to take a German course in preparation for studying or training in Germany, it may be the case that you do not need a German language course visa, but a visa to start studying or vocational training, especially if you have already found a vocational training place or course of study. If you do not meet the language requirements for enrolment in higher education and have not yet been accepted to a university, you will need a visa for seeking a place in higher education.
Do you meet the requirements mentioned before? Then find out about how the entry and visa process works.
The visa or residence permit for language acquisition is issued for the duration of the language course, up to a maximum of 12 months. During this time, you are permitted to work up to 20 hours per week.
- Federal Foreign Office (FFO) You can find out which visa you need in order to come to Germany with the Visa-Navigator.
- Federal Office for Migration and Refugees (BAMF) Centre of Excellence for Asylum, Migration and Integration in Germany
Receive advice on your opportunities to work and live in Germany. Expert support is offered for questions regarding job search, visas, recognition of qualifications and learning German.
Click the icons in the bar below to discover all contact options.