Get advice from experts: Numerous advice centres and information services provide support in your area.
Good advice can help contribute to the success of your business. Make sure to take advantage of the opportunity to get support from an expert.
In Germany, there are many public information centres that can help you set up your business. You can also find a general list of contact persons on the start-up portal (External link) .
The Authority Finder (External link) (Behördenwegweiser) will also tell you which information centres are available in your area.
You can also hire a private consulting firm to help you prepare and embark on your first entrepreneurial steps. Some German federal states provide grants towards the costs incurred for this kind of consultation. It is important that your place of residence and your company's registered office are in Germany. The start-up portal (External link) will tell you where to apply for this grant.
It is sensible to be well-prepared for the consultation. Do not be afraid to address business topics immediately; in Germany, people tend to prefer dealing with specific questions rather than excessive small talk.
Advisory services for entrepreneurs with a migratory background
Addresses of regional and national information centres, specifically for entrepreneurs with a migratory background, can be found on the start-up portal in the “Setting up a business as a person with migration background (External link) ” (Gründen mit Einwanderungsgeschichte) section.
The Specialist Office for Migrant Economics (External link) of the Network IQ also provides information and for people from abroad wanting to set up a business.
Support for female entrepreneurs
Women planning to set up a business will find information on funding and networking on the start-up portal for female entrepreneurs (External link) .
As an entrepreneur, you will need business knowledge. Do you lack expertise in this area? Or you would like to brush up on your knowledge? Then we advise you to consider further training. In seminars, you can learn the basics of bookkeeping and accounting, for example.
Many different organisations offer further training courses throughout Germany. Above all, the Chambers of Industry and Commerce (External link) (IHK) and the Chambers of Crafts (External link) (HWK) offer seminars on start-up businesses in your area.
A large selection of courses can also be found on the KURSNET (External link) website. The adult education centres (External link) (Volkshochschulen) are also good places to start.
Getting help after the initial start
Even after setting up your business, there are many opportunities for consultation. An expert can help you optimise your business processes and improve your business management planning. An initial overview of the plethora of available services can be found on the start-up portal (External link) of the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy (BMWE).
The public-sector banking group KfW (External link) also offers numerous programmes to support young entrepreneurs.
Germany offers great prospects for companies that operate on an international level and are planning to expand to Germany by setting up a subsidiary or branch office. You can find detailed information and support on the Germany Trade & Invest (External link) website.
- BMWK Authority Finder The Authority Finder will guide you to the right local public authorities and agencies for your requirements
- iXPOS – The German Business Portal Information about entering the German market
- BMWK - Gründer Plattform Information about founding a startup
- Frauenalia Support for female business founders from abroad to enter the labour market in Berlin
Receive advice on your opportunities to work and live in Germany. Expert support is offered for questions regarding job search, visas, recognition of qualifications and learning German.
Click the icons in the bar below to discover all contact options.