Senator für Kinder & Bildung
- Place of work: Bremen
- Online since:
- Sector: Occupations in education and social work, and pedagogic specialists in social care work
- Type of job offer: Salaried employment
A multitude of job advertisements and offers for vocational training are waiting for you in our job exchange. Find the job that suits you the most.
Depending on your country of origin, different requirements may apply to you for taking up employment in Germany. Our Quick-Check allows you to find out about available options in Germany. If you happen to meet the requirements, you may look for employment on our job listings..
Where do the jobs on Make it in Germany come from?
The vacancies are from the job board (Jobsuche) of the Federal Employment Agency (External link) (Bundesagentur für Arbeit – BA). Employers whose vacancies can be found on Make it in Germany have agreed to them being published on the website. Hence, they gladly accept applications by skilled workers from abroad.
Please note that the job vacancies are listed in the language in which employers originally submitted them to the BA. Currently, majority of the job vacancies are listed in German.
Our job listings include jobs for which you generally need an academic or professional qualification, i. e. a university degree or vocational training certificate. Work that does not require qualifications, such as helping activities or seasonal workers, as well as temporary work are excluded here.
How to use our job listings
You have different options to look for vacancies according to your profession.
You can refine your search results by further specifying the professional field you are looking for. Please use the options on the left-hand side (e.g. select the subcategory “Medical and health care occupations”) for that.
Filter options for your search results:
You can filter and further specify the search results by using the “Type of employment contract“, “Working time model”, “Type of job offer” and “Qualifications” filters. For example, the “Type of job offer” filter allows you to choose between “Salaried employment”, “Self-employed activity”, “Internship/Traineeship” or “Apprenticeship”.
Moreover, the search results can be sorted by publication date (immediacy of vacancies) and relevance (relevance of search term within the job advertisement).
If you wish to know more about a vacancy, please click on the “View details” button to see the full job description. The “Back to the overview of open job listings“ button takes you back to the initial overview of your search results.
Save, share and print vacancies:
You can save individual vacancies by clicking on the heart symbol on the right-hand side of each vacancy. Each vacancy will be saved in a list for you. For this purpose, a cookie is set in your browser. When accessing the website at a later point in time, you can re-access your saved vacancies under “Saved jobs”.
After accessing the full job description, you can print it out by clicking on the “Print“ button. The “Share” button allows you to share the vacancy either on your Facebook or Twitter feed or via WhatsApp or e-mail.
Do you have any questions concerning your job search?
Please use our advisory service specially tailored to professionals from abroad. The advisors will answer your personal questions relating to working and your career in Germany and help you on your professional way to Germany. Contact us via the chat or send an e-mail to make-it-in-germany@arbeitsagentur.de. Additionally, you can get advice in German and English via the “Working and Living in Germany” hotline. Please call +49 30 1815-1111.
We wish you the best of luck for your job search!
LinTec Aulendorf GmbH & Co. KG
ProArch Prosp.& Arch.GmbH
Universität Ulm Dez. III / Abt. III-1 Personalservice
Tunclar GmbH & Co. KG GmbH & Co. KG
Stiftung Kieler Stadtkloster Geschäftsstelle
Paramedix GmbH
Hasenkopf Industrie Manufaktur GmbH
Enerix Ravensburg
Shell Station A. Vorwerk
Hotel Restaurant Waldhorn Heel GmbH
DL Bauhof GmbH
Solanum Vermarktungs GmbH
Mohamed Alsafadi Zahnarzt
Phorms Kinderbetreuung Baden-Württemberg gGmbH
Deutsche Rentenversicherung Bund
Schlegel und Wegner GbR Bavaria Headhunter
Please switch to a modern browser (e.g. Google Chrome, Firefox or Microsoft Edge) in order to enjoy the best user experience.