Background information, current developments and goals: find out here what the German federal government's portal offers and what institutions are behind it.
What does the Make it in Germany portal offer?
www.make-it-in-germany.com is the German government’s portal for skilled workers from around the world. The portal, which can be browsed in a variety of different languages, offers information for those interested in moving to Germany – starting with preparations in the home country, to the actual move, to the first steps to be taken in Germany. 
Providing key information: Make it in Germany provides comprehensive information about entry and visa procedures, finding jobs, and life in Germany. Entrepreneurs and researchers can obtain specific information about their career prospects in Germany. The site also sets out information about vocational training and higher education.
Making job-hunting easier: The Make it in Germany job listings enable skilled workers to look for suitable job vacancies and to find out what sectors and regions are looking to recruit. The portal also provides important information, such as how the job application process in Germany works.
Supporting companies: Employers in Germany can visit the portal to obtain information on how to secure and integrate qualified professionals from abroad. The portal also publishes a selection of real-life stories in which various companies describe their experience and encourage others to embark on a similar path.
Offering competent and personalised advice: Qualified professionals interested in working in Germany can use the Make it in Germany portal to gain access to personalised advice on job-hunting, getting professional qualifications recognised in Germany, visas and settling in Germany – via email or the website's telephone hotline.
Who is the Make it in Germany portal for?
International qualified professionals will find information on visas and on working and living in Germany. Researchers and start-up entrepreneurs can obtain the information they need to set up as self-employed.
Prospective international students can gain insights into studying in Germany. Those interested in undertaking vocational training can find out how the German system works and what career opportunities are offered.
Employers in Germany can gain comprehensive information on how to secure and integrate international qualified professionals, as well as on points of contact in Germany that can offer support with this endeavour.
Institutions in Germany and abroad have the opportunity to connect with Make it in Germany via social media or by subscribing to the Make it in Germany newsletter.
Professionals from across all fields will find information that raises their awareness about migration and securing qualified professionals.
What does the Make it in Germany portal seek to do?
The Make it in Germany portal was launched in 2012 and has gone on to become the Federal Government’s key information portal for all issues surrounding migration to Germany. The aim of the portal is to encourage and inspire qualified professionals from around the world to come and work in Germany by presenting a culture of welcome across government, civil society, public administration, and companies. Make it in Germany presents Germany as a modern, diverse and likeable country that is open to the world and therefore an attractive option for qualified professionals from abroad.
Who is the Make it in Germany portal operated by?
Make it in Germany is the German government’s information portal for qualified professionals from around the world. Alongside the information made available online, personal advisory services are also provided. The “Working and Living in Germany” hotline is run by the Federal Employment Agency and the Federal Office for Migration and Refugees (External link) . Make it in Germany also has a strong network of partners.