Germany is known worldwide for its education system. Here you can find out how the German education system works.
Parents can go about their professional occupations with commitment and focus without worrying about their little ones. In March 2024, about 60,662 public and private day care facilities were available in Germany. Child care in Germany begins at an early age: In 2024 more than one third of the children aged 0 to 3 were supervised in a day-care facility, so their parents would be able to pursue their career aspirations. In the age group of 3 to 6 years, which includes schoolchildren as well, the proportion of all children looked after was as high as 91 per cent.
Child care is also firmly anchored in integration and inclusion. In 2024 more than 41 per cent of care facilities were kindergartens with integrative care. For children with disabilities, a total of 220 facilities were available.
The German education and training system is world-renowned. In the 2023-2024 school year, around 32,700 schools throughout Germany gave all children of school age access to education. Around half of them (47.3%) were primary schools. At the secondary education level, there were numerous Hauptschulen (5.2%), Realschulen (5.2%) and Gymnasien (9.6%). After successfully completing your schooling, you have the possibility of either embarking on a vocational training course or enrol at one of Germany’s 428 higher education establishments. Approximately a quarter of them (25.5%) are conventional universities and about half of them (50.2%) are universities of applied sciences with a more practical focus. German higher education institutions score points with their broad choice of subjects. They offer all kinds of courses, from A for Archaeology to Z for Zoology.
It is a well-known fact that you can study and do research effectively and (generally) free of charge in Germany. This is why an increasing number of international students are coming to Germany. 58,818 international students successfully completed their studies in 2023. 56.8 per cent of them studied one of the STEM subjects (science, technology, engineering and mathematics), which are highly in demand on the labour market. Moreover, international university graduates make an important contribution to covering the need for qualified professionals in Germany, as long as they stay and work in the country for a while after graduating.
Besides the large number of higher education institutions, another typical feature of the German education landscape is the dual education system. 10,220 international apprentices from countries outside the EU came to Germany to undertake basic and advanced in-company training in 2023. Including apprentices from EU states who can enter Germany without a visa under the agreement on free movement of persons, the number is even higher. Since 2015, apprentices from third countries can apply for a visa enabling them to do qualification courses in preparation for training even while their diplomas are going through the recognition procedure. This is good news for the German economy, since businesses are facing problems in finding qualified workers, as well as applicants for apprenticeships/traineeships. International apprentices can therefore make a crucial contribution to covering the need for qualified professionals.
- The Standing Conference of the Ministers of Education and Cultural Affairs The Education System in the Federal Republic of Germany
- Federal Ministry for Family Affairs, Senior Citizens, Women and Youth Information about child care in Germany
- International Organization for Migration | IOM, UN Migration Resources for Navigating Life in Germany: Workbook & Digital Companion App
Receive advice on your opportunities to work and live in Germany. Expert support is offered for questions regarding job search, visas, recognition of qualifications and learning German.
Click the icons in the bar below to discover all contact options.