In these FAQs, you will find answers to the most important questions on work and life in Germany.
What advantages does the working life in Germany have?
Employees in Germany in Germany have protected rights. These include statutory notice periods, holiday entitlement, rest periods, laws protecting mothers-to-be and nursing mothers, parental leave, co-determination within the company, equal treatment of all employees, and the statutory minimum wage, for example.
Health and safety laws are in place to uphold health and safety standards at the workplace. Even if you fall ill, you will still receive your salary. These regulations allow you to maintain a healthy relationship between work and leisure.
In addition, as an employee, you benefit from the German social security system, and you are automatically registered in the schemes of statutory health insurance, pension insurance, accident insurance, and unemployment insurance. You and your employer pay a fixed contribution, which is directly deducted from your salary for this purpose. This means that you and your family are well protected in times of hardship.
Please find more information in the “Salary, taxes & social security” section and on the website of the “Fair Integration (External link) ” project.
Can I work in Germany?
The conditions and requirements for working in Germany vary depending on the country of origin and other criteria (e.g., qualification and work experience). For skilled workers from non-EU states, a relationship of qualified employment must generally exist.
If you are from an EU or EEA Member State or from Switzerland, you have unrestricted access to the German labour market.
With the Quick-Check, you can check which options you have for working in Germany.
What is considered as qualified employment?
An employment position is considered as qualified if it requires skills and knowledge that are usually acquired during academic studies or qualified vocational training. Qualified vocational training is a state-recognised vocational training programme with a minimum training period of two years.
Where do I find job offers in Germany?
The easiest way to find current job offers in Germany is online: in the “Make it in Germany” job listings, on other known job portals on the Internet, or on social career platforms. In regard to all job offers in the „Make it in Germany” job listings, the employers agreed to receiving applications from foreign skilled workers.
Please find more tips on the topic of job search on the “Looking for a job” subpage.
What should I bear in mind when consulting a private agency to find a job?
Private placement agencies can help with the job-hunting process. However, you should make sure that you are consulting a reliable agency. Review the offer thoroughly. Be careful with extraordinarily high fees. For the placement service itself, agencies are not allowed to charge more than €2,000. Transparency as well as realistic statements on the working and living conditions in Germany are just as important as for a serious offer. In the nursing industry, the “Faire Anwerbung Pflege Deutschland” quality mark certifies private agencies according to the standards of fair and ethical migration.
Please find more information on private agencies on the “Placement agencies” subpage.
The Federal Employment Agency (BA) is the official German state institution for job placement in Germany. It offers consultations and support for international talent free of charge throughout the job-hunting process, starting with the application and ending with the first day of employment in Germany.
Please find more information on the international website of the BA (External link) .
Does “Make it in Germany” offer job placement services?
No, “Make it in Germany” does not conduct job placement services! On the portal, you can obtain binding information and advice via the “Working and Living in Germany-Hotline”. Job placement is outside of the “Make it in Germany” portal’s remit; the German state institution for job placement is the Federal Employment Agency (External link) .
If private recruitment agents or agencies place advertise or offer paid services under the “Make it in Germany” name, they are not part of the services offered by the official information portal of the Federal Government.
In which professions and industries do I have good chances of finding work in Germany?
In Germany, qualified skilled workers are sought after in various fields of work. Generally, immigrating to Germany for work is possible in all industries. Especially skilled workers in the following professions and industries have good chances on the German labour market:
- Medicine
- Education
- Transport
- IT
- Crafts and trades
- Construction
- Green Jobs
- Hotel and gastronomy industry
Please find more information on in-demand professions in the “Professions in demand” article.
Do I have to speak German to work in Germany?
Whether you require German language skills often depends on the profession to be practised. As a rule, it will be easier for you to find a job if you speak German (exceptions are possible, e.g., in the IT industry). German language skills are also important for everyday life, as well as participation on a societal level. Experience shows that language level B1 according to the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR) is a good basis for getting by in Germany.
Please visit the “Learning German” section to find out how and where you can learn German.
In some cases, a proof of your German language skills is required for the visa application. This applies to certain professions (e.g., nursing professionals) and for some visas (e.g., visa for vocational training).
Please find detailed information in the “Do I need to know German?”.
How do I apply for a job in Germany?
To apply for a job in Germany, you usually need a CV, a cover letter / letter of motivation for the specific position, and references attesting to your qualifications. As a rule, you must either upload your documents to the employer's website where the position is advertised, or you will be given an email address to which you can send your application documents (usually in a PDF file). Important: in most cases, you must write your application documents in German. Use the language in which the job advertisement is written as a guide and always state your language skills in your CV.
You can find tips on applying for jobs in the “Finding a job” section.
What should be included in my employment contract?
In Germany, you will receive a written employment contract from your employer. The employment contract should contain the following information: your name, the start date of the contract and the terms and conditions of employment (salary, holiday entitlement, weekly working hours, etc.).
Find more details in the “Work contract” section.
How much do I pay in taxes and other contributions in Germany?
If you work in Germany, you will receive a gross salary. Various contributions are deducted directly from your gross salary before you receive your net salary. These include taxes, health insurance contributions and other social security contributions. How much you pay in taxes and other contributions depends on various factors. Based on your salary, marital status, etc., you will automatically be assigned to the appropriate tax bracket. You will see the taxes and contributions you pay in detail on your payslip every month. To get an idea in advance, you can use a gross-to-net calculator online.
You can find more information in the section “Salary, taxes & social security” section.
Do I need to have my foreign qualification recognised in Germany?
Whether your qualification needs to be recognised depends on the profession you wish to pursue and the country you come from.
For example, you will always need recognition if you want to work in a regulated profession in Germany.
Regardless of your profession, recognition may also be necessary if you wish to enter Germany with a specific visa (e.g., the visa for qualified professionals).
Find out about the exact regulations in the “Who needs recognition?” section.
What are regulated professions?
Some professions in Germany are subject to special regulations by federal or state laws. People of all nationalities may only work in these regulated professions if they have a specific qualification. This applies, for example, to many professions in the fields of health, legal advice and teaching at state schools. For persons with non-German qualifications, this means that in order to work in such a profession in Germany, you generally need recognition of your foreign qualification and a licence to practise your profession. The licence to practise your profession includes the legal authorisation to practise your profession and the granting of permission to use your professional title.
Please refer to the “Recognition” section for more information on the topic.
How can I have my non-academic vocational qualification recognised?
In order to prove that your foreign, non-academic vocational qualification is equivalent to a German qualification, it must be assessed by the relevant recognition authority in Germany. The competent authority is determined by the desired profession and place of work in Germany. The specialist portal “Anerkennung in Deutschland (External link) ” can help you with this matter.
You will also find detailed information on the procedure, costs and advisory services for recognition in the “Recognition procedure” section.
How can I prove that my academic degree is comparable to a German degree?
To prove the comparability of your foreign academic degree, it is important to know whether you wish to work in a regulated or non-regulated profession. Different procedures are required in each case:
- Non-regulated professions: first, check whether your foreign academic degree is listed in the anabin database. In anabin, you can check how a foreign academic degree and the foreign university are assessed from a German perspective – free of charge. Both assessments are important for determining comparability. If your academic degree is not listed in anabin or the result is not clearly indicated as “comparable” (vergleichbar), you must request a Statement of Comparability from the Central Office for Foreign Education (ZAB). In the section “Academic qualifications”, you will find detailed information on how to prove the comparability of your academic degree.
- Regulated professions: in order to work in a regulated academic profession in Germany, you need recognition of your foreign degree and a licence to practise your profession. In this case, as with non-academic vocational qualifications, a recognition procedure is necessary.
You can find further information in the “Recognition procedure” section.
My foreign non-academic vocational qualification has only been recognised partially. Can I still work in Germany?
If you have received partial recognition of your foreign qualification, you can apply for a visa for the recognition of foreign qualifications or a visa for a recognition partnership as a third-country national. With these visas, you can acquire the missing theoretical and/or practical skills in Germany and have the option of working as a skilled worker either during or subsequently after some potential qualification measures.
Do you already have relevant professional experience in the profession you would like to pursue in Germany? In this case, the visa for professionally experienced workers may also be an option for you.
In addition, with a partial recognition notice, you can enter Germany with the job search opportunity card once you have achieved 6 points in the points system and look for a job or further training.
I have a foreign non-academic vocational qualification but no proof that it is recognised according to German standards. Can I still work in Germany?
You have the opportunity to work in Germany even if you cannot provide proof that your foreign qualification is recognised according to German standards. In this case, it is important that your qualification is recognised by the state in the country in which you obtained it. The following visas may be considered:
- Visa for professionally experienced workers: you can work in Germany if you can prove that you have relevant professional experience in the job you wish to pursue in Germany. As an alternative to a foreign qualification (recognised by the country in which it was obtained), a qualification from a German Chamber of Commerce Abroad (AHK) may also be valid.
- Visa for a recognition partnership: you do not have recognition of your foreign qualification yet, but would like to obtain it in Germany and take up employment at the same time? Then the recognition partnership could be of interest to you.
If you have not yet found a suitable job, you can also use the opportunity card to search for qualified employment in Germany. To do so, check whether you meet the requirements for the opportunity card and can demonstrate that you can score the required 6 points in the points system.
In addition, there are further special regulations for recognition in some countries, for example the Western Balkan states.
Citizens of the EU, the EEA and Switzerland have free access to the German labour market. However, if you wish to work in a regulated profession, you will need a licence to practise.
Do I need a visa to work in Germany?
If you come from an EU or EEA country or Switzerland, you can work in Germany without restriction and do not need a residence permit. Nationals of Australia, Israel, Japan, Canada, the Republic of Korea, New Zealand, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the USA can enter Germany without a visa, but must apply for a suitable residence permit from the relevant foreigners authority in Germany before taking up employment.
All other nationals also require a corresponding residence permit in order to live and work in Germany. Before entering Germany, you must apply for the appropriate visa (long-term stay – D visa) at the German mission in your country of residence. Upon arrival in Germany, you must apply for a corresponding residence permit at the competent foreigners authority.
Further information can be found in the “Who needs a visa?” section.
What is a third country?
A third country is a country that is not part of the European Union (EU) or the European Economic Area (EEA). Although Switzerland is not part of the EU or the EEA, it is treated as an EEA country for legal purposes and is therefore not considered a third country.
People from third countries need a corresponding residence permit if they wish to work in Germany. This is not necessary for people from the EU, the EEA or Switzerland.
The relevant regulations can be found in the Residence Act (AufenthG) and the Ordinance on the Employment of Foreigners (BeschV).
This means that people from third countries are allowed to work in Germany, but only if they meet certain requirements that have been checked by the competent authorities.
How do I find the appropriate visa?
The appropriate visa for you depends on many different factors, for example, your qualifications, the job you wish to pursue in Germany or your future salary. Your individual situation and the requirements of your future employer in Germany also play a role. You can get some initial guidance with the help of the Quick-Check.
You can find out which visas are available for employment purposes and what requirements you must meet to apply for them in the “Types of visa” section.
How do I apply for a visa?
You can apply for a visa at the German embassy or consulate in your country of residence. You can find the German missions abroad responsible for your country in the “Contacts worldwide” section. To learn what requirements you must meet for a visa and what documents you need to apply, please refer to the “Visa and entry process” section. In many countries, it is already possible to apply for a visa online.
Check the Consular Services Portal of Federal Foreign Office (External link) to see which visas can be applied for digitally in your country of residence.
Can I work in Germany with a tourist visa?
As a rule, it is not possible to enter Germany on a tourist visa or Schengen visa and work in Germany. If you are a third-country national and would like to live and work, study, complete an vocational training, conduct research or work on a self-employed basis in Germany on a long-term basis, you must apply for the appropriate visa (long-term visa – D visa) before entering the country and state the specific purpose of your planned stay. This allows all the necessary requirements for a long-term stay in Germany to be checked in advance. If these requirements are met, you can be issued with the visa that is appropriate for your purpose.
I don’t have a job in Germany yet. Can I still get a visa?
Yes, you can enter Germany with the opportunity card to look for a job in order to find qualified employment or to become self-employed. The opportunity card is initially issued for a maximum of one year. During this time, you must be able to support yourself financially.
You can find out what requirements you must meet for the opportunity card in the section “Job search opportunity card” section.
Further detailed information on the opportunity card can also be found in the section “Questions and answers regarding the opportunity card” section.
Can my family come to Germany with me?
In principle, yes. If you and your spouse or children are from the European Union, the European Economic Area or Switzerland, moving to Germany is very easy. No visa is required. If your spouse or children are from a third country, they will need a residence permit for the purpose of family reunification. Under certain conditions, it may also be possible for your parents or parents-in-law to join you in Germany.
Further information can be found in the “Family reunification” section and at the competent German mission or the local foreigners authority.
Can I live in Germany on a long-term basis with a work visa?
Yes, your work visa or residence permit for employment purposes is generally valid for the duration of your employment. If you meet certain requirements, you can also obtain a permanent residence permit, known as a settlement permit. This allows you to live in Germany permanently. When you can apply for a settlement permit depends primarily on your (current) residence permit. Holders of a Blue Card can, for example, obtain a settlement permit after 27 months or, if they have sufficient German language skills, even after 21 months.
You can find further information in the “Living permanently in Germany” section.
Can I obtain German citizenship?
Yes, you generally can apply for German citizenship after five years of legal residence in Germany, if you meet all other requirements. You can retain your previous citizenship if your country of origin allows it.
Please refer to the “Naturalisation” section to find more information on the procedure.
What is the Skilled Immigration Act?
Germany needs skilled workers, both from within the country and from abroad. In order to promote and simplify the immigration of qualified skilled workers to Germany, the German Federal Government passed the Skilled Immigration Act in 2020. The Act was further developed in 2023.
Please refer to the “The Skilled Immigration Act” section for further information on the changes in detail.
What is the Western Balkans regulation?
The Western Balkans regulation facilitates access to the German labour market for nationals of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, the Republic of North Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia. If you come from one of these countries, find out about your options in the file on the Western Balkans regulation and Skilled Immigration Act.
I would like to study in Germany. What requirements do I have to meet?
You can study at a German university if you meet certain requirements. You need an offer from a university (study place), a recognised school-leaving certificate that qualifies you for a study programme in Germany, and you usually must provide proof of your language skills. If you are from a third country, you will also need a visa. To obtain a visa, you must also prove that you have sufficient financial resources.
Further information is available in the Quick-Check and in the “Requirements for studying” section.
How much does studying in Germany cost?
If you want to study or do a doctorate at a public university, you will not have to pay any tuition fees in most cases. Only a small semester contribution of €300 per semester (6 months) on average is payable. In some cases, this includes a semester ticket. The semester ticket allows you to use bus and train services in the region free of charge. Additional costs include accommodation, food, and leisure activities. You can find out what other costs you should take into account in the “Requirements for studying” section.
How can I prove that I have sufficient funds to finance my study visa?
In order to obtain a visa to study, you must prove that you can cover your living expenses during your stay. The amount you need to provide proof for is updated every year. You can provide proof for your financial situation either through a blocked account, a Declaration of Commitment or a scholarship.
- A blocked account can be opened at a bank or similar service provider. The amount you deposit is blocked, and you can only withdraw a certain amount each month.
- In a Declaration of Commitment, persons living in Germany undertake to be financially responsible for your stay or to act as guarantor.
- A scholarship is a monthly payment that you receive from a funding institution and does not have to be repaid.
Further information on the requirements for a visa can be found in the “Visa for studying” section.
I would like to study or do a doctorate in Germany. Can I get a scholarship?
A scholarship is a form of financial support that does not have to be repaid. Students and doctoral candidates can apply for a scholarship from the German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD), for example. Some private and charitable institutions (e.g., churches) also provide financial support to students from abroad. It is generally helpful to find out about opportunities and apply early. A letter of motivation is often required. In addition to good academic performance, social factors and extracurricular activities are usually taken into account when awarding scholarships.
Information on various scholarship programmes is available in the DAAD database (External link) .
Can I work alongside my studies in Germany?
International students are allowed to work 140 full days (eight hours per day) or 280 half days (four hours per day) per year alongside their studies. These restrictions do not apply to student assistant jobs (e.g., at the university). With permission from the foreigners authority, international students can also do an internship or work on a self-employed basis during their studies. Income from part-time employment can be used as proof of financial means when extending your residence permit. You can find more information on this topic in the “Study and work” section.
I successfully completed my studies in Germany. Can I work here now?
Germany offers good prospects for international university graduates. With a suitable job offer, you can stay in Germany after completing your studies and work here. If you come from the European Union, the European Economic Area or Switzerland, you have unrestricted access to the labour market. If you come from a third country, you can, for example, obtain a residence permit for work, job hunting or a doctorate after completing your studies. The article “Prospects after graduation” explains the options available to you.
What is vocational training?
Vocational training is a professional qualification in which you acquire practical and theoretical knowledge in a specific professional field. There are various forms: dual vocational training, school-based vocational training and the special case of dual study programmes.
- Dual vocational training (e.g., in skilled crafts and trades or industry) combines attendance at a vocational school with practical training in a company. Apprentices receive a monthly training allowance.
- In school-based training, apprentices attend a vocational school full-time and do not receive any remuneration. Vocational training at state schools is free of charge, but apprentices often have to pay school fees at private providers. The healthcare sector is an exception: here, there are longer practical phases and apprentices receive remuneration throughout their vocational training.
The third option is a dual study programme. This combines vocational training in a company with studies at a university: at the end, dual students receive both an academic and a vocational qualification.
Can I complete vocational training in Germany?
In order to complete vocational training in Germany, persons from a third country require a visa or residence permit to complete vocational training. To obtain a visa, you need confirmation of a vocational training place and German language skills (usually at level B1). You must also prove that you have sufficient funds to live in Germany. For school-based training, you must also have your school-leaving certificate recognised; for a dual study programme, you need a university entrance qualification.
As a citizen of the EU, the EEA or Switzerland, you do not need a residence permit to undertake vocational training in Germany. However, it is important that you have German language skills at least at level B1, as lessons and exams at vocational schools are held in German.
You can find more information in the “Requirements for vocational training” section.
How can I find a vocational training place in Germany?
The first step towards finding a vocational training place in Germany is to choose a profession. You can then search for vocational training places online, for example in the “Make it in Germany” job listings. Here you can filter your search for vocational training places. When applying, please note that vocational training usually starts in August or September. It is best to apply one year in advance. Take plenty of time to prepare your documents (e.g., CV and cover letter). You can also reach out for support: the Federal Employment Agency helps interested people find a vocational training place. If you would like to work with a private placement agency, check their offer thoroughly beforehand: for example, you should not be required to pay any fees for the placement itself.
You can find detailed information on this topic in the “How do I find vocational training?” section.
I successfully completed vocational training in Germany. Can I work here now?
Yes, in principle you can work in Germany after completing your vocational training. Germany offers good career options for international vocational training graduates. Companies often take on their apprentices and offer them a permanent employment contract. Alternatively, you can look for a job in another company.
- Have you already found a suitable job? If you come from a third country, you will need a new residence permit to work before you can start working.
- You don't have a job offer yet, and you want to stay in Germany to look for work? If you come from a third country, you can obtain a residence permit for the purpose of looking for work for up to 18 months.
In both cases, you must make an appointment at your local foreigners authority well in advance and before the end of your vocational training in order to apply for the new residence permit. It is important that the job you take after completing your vocational training is qualified employment.
Further information on your career options after completing your vocational training in Germany can be found in the “Prospects after vocational training”.
Can I set up a business in Germany? Do I need a visa for that?
If you are from the European Union, the European Economic Area or Switzerland, you can start a business in Germany and do not need a visa. All other persons require a visa or residence permit to live and start a business in Germany. You can check your options with the Quick-Check.
Further information can be found in the “Setting up a business” section.
What types of businesses are there in Germany?
There are various types of businesses in Germany. These differ in their legal form and the type of activity. Depending on the type of self-employed activity you carry out, you can work as a freelancer or register a business. It is important that you find out what types of setting up a business are available to you before you start your business.
You can find information on this topic in the section “Types of new businesses”.
Do I receive financial support in Germany if I plan on becoming self-employed or work as a freelancer?
There are numerous funding programmes and free advice centres for people who want to become self-employed or work as a freelancer in Germany. There is also special advice for founders with a migrant background.
Find out more in the “Setting up a business” section under “Advisory services”.
What do I have to take care of after entering Germany?
After arriving in Germany, there are a few formalities to take care of: registering your place of residence, opening a bank account, taking out health insurance and getting a German SIM card for your mobile phone are among the most important first steps. You must also apply for the appropriate residence permit at the local foreigners authority before your entry visa expires.
You can find explanations and tips for settling in locally in the “Living in Germany” section.
How to I search for accommodation in Germany?
The best place to start looking for accommodation in Germany is online. You can find suitable offers in your city on various real estate platforms. It may also be a good idea to look for temporary accommodation for the first few weeks or months, e.g., a holiday apartment, a room in a shared flat or a sublet. In any case, you must register your place of residence with the registration office. Real estate agents will also help you find accommodation for a fee.
You can find additional information and links in the “Living in Germany” section under “Housing and registration”.
How do I register my place of residence?
In Germany, all citizens are required to register. The residents’ registration office in your place of residence is responsible for your registration in your new place of residence. You must make an appointment there within two weeks of moving.
Further information can be found in the “Housing and registration” section.
Can I take my car with me to Germany?
Yes, but you must consider the length of your stay. If you are staying for a longer period, you must pay the annual motor vehicle tax (Kfz-Steuer). For shorter visits, cars from non-EU countries may be used for six months. You can find more information in the “Driving licence & car” section or on the German Customs (External link) website.
How can I improve my German language skills?
The German language is an important key to successfully settling in Germany and feeling at home. A German course is usually a good idea. But you have many other options: take advantage of free online courses and apps. You can also make new contacts and speak German through hobbies, clubs, social media or volunteer work.
Information on German and integration courses and further tips for learning the language can be found in the “Learning German” section.
What can I do if I experience discrimination in Germany?
In Germany, the General Act on Equal Treatment (AGG) (External link) applies. It protects people from discrimination on the basis of age, gender, chronic illness or disability, religion, sexual identity and on racist or anti-Semitic grounds. It applies at work, in everyday life and when looking for accommodation.
Those affected by discrimination can contact numerous advice centres free of charge, and they will receive support. The Federal Anti-Discrimination Agency (External link) and the EU Equal Treatment Agency (External link) provide an overview of local advice centres.
The “Fair Integration” project (External link) also provides comprehensive information on labour and social law issues for third-country nationals.
Who can help if I have questions on living and working in Germany?
If you have individual questions about working and living in Germany that are not answered on the portal, the experts at the German- and English-language “Working and Living in Germany” hotline will be happy to help you. They can provide you with information on job hunting, work and career, recognition of foreign professional qualifications, entry and residence, and learning German.
How do I find advice centres in my home country?
You can find contact persons for immigration to Germany in your home country in the “Contacts worldwide” section. This database contains a list of institutions in each country that can provide you with local support.
Which German institutions and portals are important in the context of skilled immigration?
Various ministries and agencies of the Federal Government and many other institutions, associations and portals deal with skilled immigration. As the umbrella portal of the Federal Government, “Make it in Germany” cooperates with all relevant players. You can find an overview in the “Partner network” section.