Do you need some initial help? Here, we will inform you of the first steps – from the preparations for the entry to the matriculation.
Many students in Germany live in halls of residence. The rooms are affordable and you can get to know other students quickly. The “Find student hall (External link) ” option on the Study in Germany website will assist you in the process of looking for a hall of residence in the area of your preferred university. Additionally, DAAD provides comprehensive information on applying for a hall of residence (External link) . You will find the addresses of student support services on the website of Deutsches Studierendenwerk (External link) . The International Office at your university will also help you with your search.
You will find more information on finding accommodation in Germany in the "Living in Germany" section.
Every time you move houses in Germany, you need to register your new address at the Residents' Registration Office. You have two weeks to do so, once you have found accommodation. You can also register your new address at the Citizens' Registration Office (Bürgeramt). The address of the Residents’ Registration Office or the Citizens' Registration Office can be obtained from the International Office of your university. The International Offices' addresses can be found on the DAAD (External link) website.
In order to make payments (such as paying rent) quickly and easily, you need a bank account. You should therefore open a current account with a bank in Germany as soon as possible. Most institutions offer an account of this sort free of charge for students.
You will find more information, for example what documents you require in order to open an account, in the "Living in Germany" section.
Have you been accepted into a course of study? Please bear in mind that you cannot use the university's facilities, such as the library, until you have enrolled. You generally have to show up in person in order to enrol at your university. Make a careful note of the deadline and ensure that you enrol in good time. All the relevant information can be found in your letter of admission.
If you come to Germany from a country outside the EU/EEA for the purpose of studying, you will need a residence permit to stay – even if you did not need a visa to enter the country. For this reason, you must register with your local foreigners authority within three months of entering the country. Ideally, you should consult the International Office at your university to find out which authority is responsible for your matters. You can find further information on this topic on the DAAD (External link) website.
The Study in Germany (External link) website has plenty of useful tips on how to successfully start your studies in Germany and how to plan your day-to-day life. The “Study in Germany” blog (External link) contains reports of international students all about their academic studies in Germany. These may help you in gaining a first impression via personal stories and photos.
On the website “AN! Recognition at universities (External link) ”, students and prospective students can find out about the possibility of recognition of university achievements and crediting of competencies acquired outside of higher education in the case of a change of university or study programme.
Receive advice on your opportunities to work and live in Germany. Expert support is offered for questions regarding job search, visas, recognition of qualifications and learning German.
Click the icons in the bar below to discover all contact options.