Other than taking up employment, there are other reasons to apply for a visa to enter Germany. For certain professional groups, special entry and employment rules have to be considered. Read more about other types of visa that are designed for a long-term stay in Germany.
As an assistant in nursing from a third country, you have the opportunity to practise your profession in Germany. Find out what the requirements are here.
As an entrepreneur from abroad, your business plans could thrive in Germany. In some cases, a visa for self-employment might be necessary.
Germany is an attractive location for many international researchers. Those who come from abroad and wish to enter Germany for a research stay may need a visa for their research endeavours.
Taking a German class in Germany can have many advantages: the acquired language skills can immediately be put to practice in everyday life. For this purpose of stay, a visa for language acquisition may be necessary.
As a student enrolled in a university abroad, it is possible to complete an internship in Germany to gain some initial work experience. For this purpose, a visa may be necessary in individual cases.
Professional drivers from third countries can work in Germany, even without a formal recognition. Learn which requirements apply for the visa and the stay.
Taking up work as an international artist in Germany is subject to a special regulation, if they happen to come from third countries. Verify whether you meet the requirements for the entry and stay.
With a visa to work as a language teacher, you can live in Germany and teach your mother tongue at a school. Learn which visa requirements apply for this purpose.
In professional sports, athletes from third countries can receive a residence title to professionally practice their sport in Germany. You can read here which requirements apply for the visa and the stay.
As a professional eSports professional, you can pursue your eSports career in Germany. If you come from a third country, you will need a visa. You can find out which visa regulations and requirements you have to fulfill here.