The IT industry is one of the biggest and most successful industries in Germany. Find out here why this is the case and how you can contribute.
The technology sector is one of the most important economic sectors in Germany. With an annual turnover of 170 billion euros in 2026, the IT industry is a major economic driving force – and it is growing steadily. With over 1.5 million skilled workers at the end of 2025, the IT sector is also the second-biggest industrial employer. Increasing digitalisation generates tens of thousands of new jobs every year, but many positions remain vacant due to the shortage of skilled workers. That is why international IT specialists are particularly in demand. You, too, can become part of this dynamic and innovative industry in Germany!
The de:hub initiative (External link) connects SMEs and larger companies with innovation partners from the scientific and start-up communities at 25 centres of excellence in Germany. By joining forces, they seek innovative answers to the questions and challenges of digitalisation. To find out more about the network and its benefits, please refer to their website.
Are you seeking unique challenges in the IT sector? When it comes to IT innovations, most people think of Silicon Valley first – but what about Berlin? Berlin not only is Germany's digital capital, but it is also a hot spot for inventive start-up companies. The Berlin start-up scene is a driving force for jobs in Germany. In fact, the federal state generates more jobs through start-ups than through any other type of business. The start-up companies in Berlin primarily focus on technologies such as AI or blockchain.
The application of blockchain technology is particularly prevalent in the fintech sector. Over the past years, Berlin has become a fintech hub, with the majority of German businesses in this sector located there. Germany's capital is also at the forefront of artificial intelligence; 30% of all AI start-ups are based there. Aside from Berlin, Munich, Hamburg and the Rhine-Ruhr metropolitan region, Germany has many other start-up hot spots. Their top priorities are innovation and sustainability. To discover innovative start-up companies throughout Germany, use the Start-up Finder (External link) .
Self-driving cars, smart homes and voice assistants – intelligent technologies can be found in every area of life. AI technologies have become indispensable in Germany as well. The Map on AI (External link)  on Germany's platform for artificial intelligence now shows 1,287 entries for where AI is prevalent in Germany. You can refer to the Map on AI to find out about creative applications and projects in which AI technologies are being used.
In order to drive this development forward, the Federal Government strives to invest in the implementation of a national AI strategy by appropriately allocating funds and by creating the legal framework. The aim of this investment is to make Germany the world's leading location for AI. First and foremost, however, the new AI technologies should benefit the people and the environment.
Would you like to help shape the future of AI in one of the most innovative locations? Then start your career as an IT specialist in Germany!