Participate in Industry 4.0 and energy transition in Germany. The engineering sector offers you many career paths.
Germany is famous for its engineering expertise and the quality of its machines and plants, electrotechnical products and cars. The use of digital technologies leads to diverse new perspectives and business models for companies and their employees, especially for engineers.
Germany offers you many career prospects to engineers; in many economic sectors, your qualifications are in demand. The field of research and development (R&D) currently has a great number of vacant jobs in higher positions for engineers. The following occupations are also particularly in demand:
- Automation technology
- Supervision of construction planning and architecture
- Automotive industry, including electromobility and autonomous driving
- Renewable energies and environmental protection
- Artificial intelligence (AI)
As an engineer, you can work in various fields, for example in technical production planning and management, in quality assurance, in construction or in machine and model construction. Many well-qualified engineers work in leadership positions.
As a citizen of the European Union, Liechtenstein, Iceland, Norway or Switzerland, you do not require a visa or a residence permit in order to work in Germany. Citizens of other countries do require a residence permit for that purpose. You can find more information on the work visa for qualified professionals and the EU Blue Card in the "Visa" section.
If finding a job position from abroad appears to be challenging, it is possible to enter Germany for up to one year after completing your studies in order to look for a job. You can find out which requirements need to be fulfilled to apply for a job search opportunity card in the "Job search opportunity card" section.
Would you like to work in research as an engineer and need a visa to work in Germany? Then you have two options. You can either apply for a visa for research or the EU Blue Card for this purpose. You should therefore check the requirements for each residence title and whether you fulfil them.
✔ Your career prospects: with our Quick-Check, you can find out about the opportunities available to you for working and living in Germany.
✔ The German employment market: find more information on job-hunting and get useful tips in our “Looking for a job” section.
✔ Apply now: find a suitable position in our "Make it in Germany" job listings and use our tips for a successful job application in Germany.
Knowledge of the German language is not mandatory to work as an engineer in Germany. However, speaking German will make your entry into the labour market and your day-to-day life in Germany easier. You can find more information on learning opportunities in the "Learning German" section.
Receive advice on your opportunities to work and live in Germany. Expert support is offered for questions regarding job search, visas, recognition of qualifications and learning German.
Click the icons in the bar below to discover all contact options.