If you are coming to the United States to work or study, we are confident that you will have a pleasant and rewarding stay. If you encounter any problems, however, know that you have rights and can get help. All temporary workers and employers must follow U.S. laws and we encourage you to report any violations or abuses and seek assistance.
Please call the National Human Trafficking Hotline at 1-888-373-7888 or visit humantraffickinghotline.org if you feel unsafe or are being mistreated.
This is a safe and confidential hotline run by a non-governmental organization that operates 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Trained specialists are available to help in more than 200 languages. You do not need to give your name or identify yourself. If you are ever in immediate danger, call 911.
The pamphlet linked below includes the number for the hotline and informs you of your rights as a nonimmigrant visa holder in certain employment- and education-based categories. The pamphlet also includes helpful tips for your stay in the United States, like how to keep a written record of all the time you work and keeping your travel documents in a safe place where you can always access them. The U.S. government created this pamphlet at the prompting of the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act (Public Law 110-457), which reaffirms and strengthens the U.S. government’s commitment to fight human trafficking and labor abuses.
Before your visa interview at the U.S. Embassy or Consulate abroad, it is important that you take the time to read this pamphlet carefully. You will be asked at your visa interview to confirm that you have done so. By reviewing this information, you will learn about your rights and protections in the United States, as well as resources available to you if help is needed.
The Department has also prepared an informational video in response to section 1206 of the Violence against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Pub. L. 113-4). Please watch this short video below before you begin traveling to the United States. The video complements the pamphlet and explains what rights you have when working in the United States and how you can safely reach out for help if you feel your rights are violated.