The Diplomatic Liaison Division, located at the Department of State in the Visa Office, renews visas for foreign military personnel stationed in the United States. You may also apply for a new visa outside the United States at a U.S. embassy or consulate.
See Renewing A, G, and NATO Visas in the U.S. for general information about visa renewals.
The Diplomatic Liaison Division cannot renew visas for foreign military members who are:
Not assigned to a foreign embassy or consulate in the United States; or
Nationals of Iran, Sudan, or Syria, the three countries currently designated as state sponsors of terrorism. (See Special Processing Procedures for applicants from these countries.)
These applicants must apply for new visas at a U.S. embassy or consulate.
Personal employees with A-3 and NATO-7 visas cannot be renewed in the United States. They must apply for new visas outside the United States at a U.S. embassy or consulate.
Gather and prepare the following required documents:
Note: If the photo upload function fails, you must submit one printed photo in the format explained in the Photograph Requirements.
The Diplomatic Liaison Division does not endorse the use of any particular commercial courier service, but it may be useful for the return envelope to have a tracking number so you can better determine its location after it leaves our office. If using the U.S. Postal Service, the Postal Service recommends a padded envelope for passport return. (Please note that packages sent via the Postal Service are often subjected to irradiation, which can damage passports, I-94s, and other enclosures.) A family should submit one courier airbill/envelope or one self-addressed, stamped envelope for the return of their documents. Please use the military command's address or your personal address in the United States as the "from" address on the airbill or the self-addressed envelope. Please ensure that the airbill contains the military command's courier company account number or your valid credit card number.
There are no fees for A-2 and NATO visa renewals.
Submit Your Application - In Person or By Mail
Applications Submitted in Person
Applications may be submitted at the Diplomatic Liaison Division's Diplomatic Reception Area on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, excluding holidays, between 10:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m. (Eastern Time).
You may mail your application package containing all required documents, including a self-addressed, stamped return envelope or a properly completed commercial courier airbill and envelope. Mail your application package to the Diplomatic Liaison Division at the following address:
Diplomatic Liaison Division, Department of State
CA/VO/DO/DL
SA-17, Floor 11
Washington, DC 20522-1711
Please allow a minimum of 5-7 business days, not counting date of submission or the date of receipt, for your visa renewal to be processed at the Diplomatic Liaison Division. In some cases, processing may take longer.
Case Status Check - Applicants can easily check the status of their cases online with the Department of State’s CEAC Status Check. To check the status of your case:
For applications submitted in person at the Diplomatic Reception Desk, passports with visas may be picked up Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, excluding holidays, between 10:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m. (Eastern Time). To check on the status of a visa, please call (202) 485-7681 between 2:00 p.m. and 3:00 p.m.