While you are in the United States, you have the right to:
Visit MigrantWorker.gov for more information on these rights

IF YOUR RIGHTS HAVE BEEN VIOLATED, CONTACT THE NATIONAL HUMAN TRAFFICKING HOTLINE AT 1-888-373-7888 (WITHIN THE UNITED STATES), TEXT “HELP” TO 233733 (WITHIN THE UNITED STATES) OR EMAIL HELP@HUMANTRAFFICKINGHOTLINE.ORG.

CALLS ARE ANONYMOUS, CONFIDENTIAL, AND SAFE REGARDLESS OF IMMMIGRATION STATUS. TRAINED SPECIALISTS ARE AVAILABLE TO HELP IN MORE THAN 200 LANGUAGES. LEARN MORE AT WWW.HUMANTRAFFICKINGHOTLINE.ORG.
If you are in immediate danger while you are in the United States, call 911 to contact the local police. Share the emergency, your location, and the phone number from which you are calling. Interpreters are available if needed.
If you applied for an A-3, G-5, H, J, NATO-7, TN, or B-1 domestic worker nonimmigrant visa, you should receive this pamphlet either:
U.S. consular officers want to help you understand your rights in the United States and are available to answer any questions you have.
You can also get help from your consulate in the United States through the U.S. Department of Labor’s Consular Partnership Program (CPP). Through CPP, your consulate can assist you, help you find resources, and support you in filing a complaint if you believe your rights have been violated. For a list of partner countries, visit: www.dol.gov\\general\\migrantworker\\support
Your employer cannot fire you, mistreat you, or refuse to pay you for exercising your rights.
You have the right to:
1. Be Paid Fairly
If you have questions or concerns about wages and your paycheck, call 1-866-487-9243 or visit a local Wage and Hour Office: www.dol.gov/agencies/whd/contact/local-offices.
Safe Workplace: Your employer must keep your workplace healthy and safe.
Training: Your employer must give you information and training about job hazards, how to avoid injury or accidents, and the safety and health rules for your workplace. The training must be in a language you understand.
Required Safety Equipment: You have the right to receive required safety equipment, like gloves or a harness and lifeline for falls, and your employer must teach you how to use this equipment properly.
Report Work-Related Injuries and Illnesses: You have a right to report an injury or illness, and to see and to get copies of your medical records from your employer.
File a Safety and Health Complaint: If you think your work is unsafe or dangerous to your health, you (or someone representing you) can file a confidential complaint with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). If you can, it is a good idea to bring another worker with you as a witness if you tell your employer about the unsafe conditions and also share your concerns by text message or email so there is a written record. You can talk privately and confidentially with OSHA inspectors and see the results of inspections or tests taken to find work area hazards.
Protection from Retaliation: You can speak up about hazards at work. You have the right to file a complaint with OSHA if you believe your employer is punishing you for raising concerns about safety and health hazards. If you believe you are being punished for raising concerns, file a complaint within 30 days of the alleged punishment. For more information visit: www.whistleblowers.gov.
For more information on OSHA Worker Rights, visit: www.osha.gov/workers
Medical Treatment: You can see a doctor or nurse by yourself if you need to do so. If you get hurt or sick from work, your employer should pay for your medical care and some of your lost wages. Ask for copies of any paperwork from the doctor, clinic, or hospital. In most cases, you may file for workers’ compensation in the state where you work, which is a payment of money for work-related injuries or sickness. Find your local office for requesting workers’ compensation here: https://www.dol.gov/agencies/owcp
Housing: If your employer provides housing, it should be clean and safe. You must be allowed to freely leave your housing.
Bathrooms: Bathrooms should be clean and easy to get to. Your employer should let you use the bathroom whenever you need to and provide washing stations with water and soap or similar cleansing agents, so you can wash your hands.
Potable Water: You have the right to receive clean drinking water free of charge.
Heat: Employers covered by OSHA must protect you from extreme temperature and should have a program to prevent heat illness.
If you are working with or around pesticides or dangerous chemicals, your employer must:
If you think your job is unsafe and you want an inspection or more information about your rights, call 1-866-4-USA-DOL or go to the Department of Labor’s website (dol.gov or migrantworker.gov).

If you are an H-2A worker with questions or concerns about the health and safety of your worksite, housing, or transportation, call 1-866-487-9243 or visit a local Wage and Hour Office: www.dol.gov/agencies/whd/contact/local-offices. 
In most cases, you have the right to:
No matter your immigration status, you can contact the National Human Trafficking Hotline if you think you are a victim of trafficking at 1-888-373-7888 for help or the National Labor Relations Board at 1-844-762-6572 and ask to speak to a Regional Immigration Coordinator.
For more resources for workers and who to contact in the United States government for specific concerns, visit: MigrantWorker.gov/
TrabajadorMigrante.gov.
If you believe your rights have been violated, report it to the National Human Trafficking Hotline at 1-888-373-7888 (within the United States) or to one of the websites listed the list of resources at the bottom of this page. If you do not speak English, ask for an interpreter.
Your employer must give you a work contract that complies with U.S. law, including requirements that the contract:
Make sure you understand the contract and get a copy of it. Do not sign a contract if you do not understand what it says.
At a minimum, the contract must include:
Your employer must:
If you are an H-2A or H-2B worker and have questions or concerns about your rights, call 1-866-487-9243 or visit a local Wage and Hour Office: www.dol.gov/agencies/whd/contact/local-offices.
Your sponsor must provide help with finding a job after one week of searching in the United States if you are from a visa-waiver country and arrived without a job. Sponsors also must provide reasonable assistance to all Summer Work Travel participants wishing to change jobs during their program. Sponsors must assess and confirm initial and any additional job placements of all Summer Work Travel Program participants before participants may start work as outlined in program regulations.
A nonimmigrant visa is a U.S. government document that lets people come to the United States for specific reasons, like to work, to study, or to join a cultural exchange program. You need to apply for a visa at a U.S. embassy or consulate abroad (Note: Canadian citizens apply for admission in J-1 status at a port of entry). Once you get the visa, you can travel to the United States and show it to a U.S. immigration official (“CBP officer”) to enter. If your visa expires, you need to get a new visa before you come back to the United States. For more details about the visa application process and your U.S. visa, visit: usvisas.state.gov.
When a CBP officer admits you into the United States, a Form I-94 will be electronically created (sometimes it may be a paper document). The Form I-94 will show your entry date, visa type, and the date by which you must leave the United States. You must leave the United States before your “admit until” date to stay legally unless you file for an extension of stay with U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). You can check your I-94 record at: https://i94.cbp.dhs.gov.
Human trafficking, also known as trafficking in persons, is a serious crime where people use force, fraud, or coercion to compel another person to provide labor or services, or to be involved in a commercial sex act. If any person under the age of 18 is involved in a commercial sex act, it is considered human trafficking even if no force, fraud, or coercion were used. A commercial sex act is trading anything of value (include housing, protection, food, money) for sex.
The National Human Trafficking Hotline can help with referrals to needed services and local support. Contact the National Human Trafficking Hotline at 1-888-373-7888 if you or someone you know may be experiencing one or more of the following:
Being threatened or afraid
No one can use threats, fear, and other kinds of intimidation to make you, or others feel too scared to try to leave. Examples include:
Being forced to do something to repay a debt
A person cannot make you perform or continue to provide labor, services, or commercial sex acts, or to stop you from leaving. A person cannot suddenly change your debt to make it harder for you to repay or make you think you must keep working until the debt is paid off.
Examples include:
Not being able to leave, speak up, or ask for help
People cannot stop you or others from leaving, speaking out, or getting help. Examples include saying you cannot leave the workplace or limiting where you can go when you are not working.
Traffickers, and people who help them, may demand that you perform labor, services or commercial sex acts (prostitution) to repay a debt. In some instances the debt is created and imposed by the trafficker. It is against the law to use a debt to compel you to continue providing labor, services or commercial sex acts, or to prevent you from leaving. Traffickers may manipulate your debt to make it harder to pay off and may cause you to believe that you must remain in the trafficker’s service until the debt is paid. Examples of manipulating debts include:
Being lied to
No one can lie or trick you to make you do work or commercial sex acts.
Examples of lies and tricks include:
There are programs to protect people who report abuse or mistreatment. These programs may allow you to stay in the United States even if you leave your employer. You should not be afraid to seek help even if you have immigration concerns. Call the National Human Trafficking Hotline at 1-888-373-7888 to understand your options. The National Human Trafficking Hotline is not operated by the Government or law enforcement.
This pamphlet was created pursuant to section 202 of the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008, Public Law 110-457.
If you are coming to the United States to work or study, we are confident that you will have a pleasant and rewarding stay. If you should encounter any problems, however, know that you have rights and can get help. This video below informs you of your rights as a nonimmigrant visa holder in certain employment- and education-based categories. The U.S. government created this video in response to the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act (Public Law 110-457), which reaffirms and strengthens the U.S. government’s commitment to fight human trafficking and labor abuses.