If you are a diplomat or government official who is physically present in the United States on assignment:
Requesting to renew (reapply for) your visa or that of an immediate family member, select Renewing an A-1 or A-2 Visa in the United States to learn more. A-3 visa holders must reapply for their visas outside the United States.
Requesting to change status into or out of A status, select Change of Status to/from A,G, NATO to learn more.
Diplomats and other foreign government officials traveling to the United States to engage solely in official duties or activities on behalf of their national government must obtain A-1 or A-2 visas prior to entering the United States. You cannot travel using visitor visas or under the Visa Waiver Program. With the exception of a Head of State or Government -- who qualifies for an A1 visa regardless of their purpose of travel -- your position within your country’s government and your purpose of travel determines whether you need an A-1 or A-2 visa. Immediate family members of diplomats and government officials receive A-1 or A-2 visas, with few exceptions. Personal employees, attendants, or domestic workers for diplomats and government officials (holding a valid A-1 or A-2 visa) may be issued A-3 visas.
To qualify for an A-1 or A-2 visa, you must be traveling to the United States on behalf of your national government to engage solely in official activities for that government. The specific duties or services that will be performed must be governmental in character or nature, as determined by the U.S. Department of State, in accordance with U.S. immigration laws. Government officials traveling to the United States to perform non-governmental functions of a commercial nature, or traveling as tourists, require the appropriate visas and do not qualify for A visas. The fact that there may be government interest or control in a given organization is not in itself the defining factor in determining if you qualify for an A visa.
There are several steps to apply for a visa. The order of these steps and how you complete them may vary at the U.S. Embassy or Consulate where you apply. Please consult the instructions available on the embassy or consulate website where you will apply.
As part of the visa application process, an interview at the U.S. Embassy or Consulate is required for most visa applicants applying abroad. Embassies and consulates generally do not require interviews for those applying for A-1 and A-2 visas, although a consular officer can request an interview.
Personal employees, domestic workers, and attendants of A-1 or A-2 visa holders applying for A-3 visas are required to be interviewed. Review information in the Personal Employees section below.
All applicants for A visas should gather and deliver the following required documents to the U.S. Embassy or Consulate in your home country:
Review the instructions for how to apply for a visa on the website of the embassy or consulate where you will apply. Additional documents may be requested to establish if you are qualified.
Individuals who qualify for an official visa classification ( A, G, C-3, NATO) are exempt from paying visa fees.
More About Visa Fees - Individuals holding diplomatic passports may also be exempt from visa fees regardless of visa classification and purpose of travel, if they meet one of the qualifying categories. Possession of a diplomatic passport or the equivalent is not by itself sufficient to qualify for a no-fee diplomatic visa. The consular officer will make the determination whether the visa applicant qualifies for an exemption of fees under U.S. immigration laws. Official passport holders are not charged for official visas, but are required to pay visa application and reciprocal issuance fees, if applicable, for all non-official visas.
Visa application procedures for your immediate family members are the same as for you. U.S. embassies and consulates will adjudicate visa applications that are based on a same-sex marriage in the same way that we adjudicate applications for opposite sex spouses.
Immediate family members are defined as the spouse and unmarried sons and daughters up to certain age who are members of your household, even if studying in a different location. An immediate family member may also be any other person who is related by blood, marriage or adoption and will reside regularly in your household, is not a member of some other household, and is recognized as your immediate family member by the sending Government, as demonstrated by eligibility for rights and benefits, such as the issuance of a diplomatic or official passport or travel and other allowances.
In limited circumstances, a same-sex domestic partner other than a same-sex spouse may qualify as immediate family, IF the sending government does not legally recognize same-sex marriage AND the sending government provides reciprocal treatment to same sex spouses of U.S. diplomats and government officials.
A family member who does not qualify as immediate family, as described above, may qualify for a visitor (B-2) visa. Visitor visa applicants are required to pay visa application and issuance fees, if applicable.
Effective immediately, U.S. Embassies and Consulates will adjudicate visa applications that are based on a same-sex marriage in the same way that we adjudicate applications for opposite sex spouses. Please reference the specific guidance on the visa category for which you are applying for more details on documentation required for derivative spouses. For further information, please see our FAQs.
Personal employees, attendants, domestic workers, or servants of individuals who have a valid A-1 or A-2 visa may receive an A-3 visa, if they meet the requirements in 9 FAM 402.3-9. As part of the application process, the applicant must have an interview at the embassy or consulate. A written contract must be provided to the consular officer. The employer must provide proof that the applicant will receive the minimum wage and be provided working conditions in accordance with U.S. law. In addition, the applicant needs to demonstrate that s/he will perform the contracted employment duties. The consular officer will determine eligibility for the A-3 visa. Applicants for A-3 visas must apply outside the United States.
If the employer is not the principal officer or deputy principal officer or does not carry the diplomatic rank of minister or higher, the employer must demonstrate that he or she will have sufficient funds to provide the minimum wage and working conditions, as reflected in the contract. Consideration is also given to the number of employees an employer would reasonably be able to pay.
Please keep your own passport and a copy of your employment contract with you while in the United States. You should not let your employer keep your contract or passport or other personal property for any reason. You and your employer will be subject to U.S. law while in the United States, and your contract describes the work arrangement your employer is expected to respect.
Certain employment-based nonimmigrants have legal rights under U.S. Federal immigration, labor, and employment laws, and you should have received information about protections and available resources. As a temporary visitor to the United States, it is important that you are aware of your rights, as well as protections and resources available, when you come to work or study here. Before your interview, review the “Know Your Rights” pamphlet and learn about additional information on our webpage.
The U.S. Government considers "involuntary servitude" of domestic workers, as defined under the Trafficking Victims Protection Act (TVPA), to be a severe form of trafficking in persons (TIP) and a serious criminal offense. Victims of involuntary servitude are offered protection under the TVPA. "The term 'involuntary servitude' includes a condition of servitude induced by means of any scheme, plan, or pattern intended to cause a person to believe that, if the person did not enter into or continue in such condition, that person or another person would suffer serious harm or physical restraints, or the abuse or threatened abuse of the legal process." While in the U.S., domestic workers are advised that the telephone number for police and emergency services is 911, and that the U.S. Government maintains a telephone hotline for reporting abuse of domestic employees and other TIP-related crimes, 1-888-373-7888.
How you complete the several steps required to apply for a visa vary according to the U.S. Embassy or Consulate where you apply. As part of the application process, an interview at a U.S. Embassy or Consulate outside the United States is required. The employer and/or recruitment agent does not attend the interview.
You must schedule an appointment for your visa interview at the U.S. Embassy or Consulate in your home country, in the country where you are currently residing, or in the country where you are physically present. Please consult the instructions available on the embassy or consulate website.
A-3 Visa applicants must submit each of the items explained in this webpage and How to Apply sections including:
During your visa interview, a consular officer will determine whether you are qualified to receive a visa based on your purpose of travel and other requirements. You must establish that you meet the requirements under U.S. law to receive an A-3 visa.
Ink-free, digital fingerprint scans will be taken as part of your application process. They are usually taken during your interview, but this varies based on location.
After your visa interview, your application may require further administrative processing. The consular officer will inform you if your application needs further processing.
If the visa is approved, the Embassy or Consulate will let you know how the office will return your passport with visa to you.
Personal employees should keep their passport and a copy of their contract in their possession. They should not surrender their contract and passport to their employer under any circumstances. Personal employees should understand that their contracts provide working arrangements that the employer is expected to respect.
Recent changes to U.S. law relate to the legal rights of certain employment-based nonimmigrants under Federal immigration, labor, and employment laws and the information to be provided about protections and available resources. Employers, as well as personal employees, should review the Nonimmigrant Rights, Protections and Resources pamphlet explained above.
Personal employees and domestic workers should understand that they must follow U.S. laws while in the United States.
Select Change of Status to learn about:
Attempting to obtain a visa by the willful misrepresentation of a material fact, or fraud, may result in the permanent refusal of a visa or denial of entry into the United States.
Review Ineligibilities for U.S. Visas.
| For the Following Services: | Contact: |
| A, G, and NATO visas (except for the UN community) | Diplomatic Liaison Division Visa Office, Department of State (202) 485-7681 2:00-4:00 p.m. (EST) Monday through Friday, except holidays |
| G visas for members of the UN community | U.S. Mission to the UN (212) 415-4275 or usunvisas@state.gov |