Race and Ethnicity Travel Safety
The United States is a multi-cultural and multi-ethnic nation. U.S. citizen travelers reflect this broad diversity.
Traveler security: Race or ethnic origin
Most U.S. citizens who travel each year do so safely and without incident. However, travelers may face more risk in some destinations due to their real or perceived ethnicity, national origin, or race.
This risk includes racial or ethnic profiling, detentions, questioning, and ID checks. Foreign government officials may also make incorrect assumptions about your citizenship based simply on appearance. Review our information on dual nationality.
Before you travel abroad, research local conditions and culture at your destination. When planning, take into account views on ethnicity, nationality, and race.
Stay aware of local customs and norms
Customs, norms, and laws in other destinations can be quite different from those in the United States. Some destinations prohibit certain behaviors, ways of dressing, or specific speech. They may not ban discrimination based on race or ethnicity. Even if they ban such discrimination, they may not enforce it.
Some officials may profile, question, or detain travelers based on their ethnicity, race, or religion. Police may stop you and request identification documents. Carry proof of citizenship and legal entry (visa). Request the police to notify the U.S. embassy if they detain you and clearly state that you are a U.S. citizen.
Travelers may encounter hate speech or hate crimes.
U.S. citizens abroad may find it hard to access housing, education, health care, and jobs due to their race or ethnicity. In some destinations, profiling may lead to banned entry. This includes entry to privately owned facilities, like hotels and restaurants. Foreigners may also be subject to surveillance.
Being identified as different
In some places, locals rarely see different-looking people. You might attract unwanted attention. Locals may judge you based on your attire, skin color, or other physical traits. If you are identified as being different from the general population, you may:
- be openly stared at
- be stopped in the street
- have your photo taken without your consent
- have your skin and hair touched without your consent, or
- be asked invasive questions.
Try to stay calm and remove yourself from the area if you are uncomfortable or feel unsafe.
We recommend that all travelers review the destination information before traveling. It includes important information on entry requirements, local laws, and other safety considerations.
Sign up for the Smart Traveler Enrollment Program to receive safety and security alerts from the U.S. embassy or consulate for your destination during your trip.
Write down the address and contact details in English and the local language for the U.S. embassy or consulate(opens in a new tab) for your destination and carry it at all times in case of an emergency.
- Contact the U.S. embassy or consulate(opens in a new tab) for your destination if you are detained or harassed by local authorities.
- Officers are available to assist you in an emergency 24/7.