FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
June 6, 2026
U.S. Embassy Islamabad Marks 250 Years
of American Freedom in Grand Celebration 
ISLAMABAD: June 6, 2026 – The U.S. Mission in Pakistan tonight hosted a landmark Freedom 250 celebration to honor two and a half centuries of American democracy and the enduring partnership between the United States and Pakistan.
The event – part of a full year of festivities leading up to America’s 250th anniversary – was a vivid reflection of the deep and multifaceted ties between the two nations. Honored guests from across the spectrum of Pakistani public life attended, including government officials, business leaders, civil society representatives, academics and cultural figures. Their presence underscored the breadth and vitality of the U.S.-Pakistan relationship – a partnership rooted in shared interests, mutual respect, and a commitment to a more secure and prosperous future for both peoples.
In her keynote address, Chargé d’Affaires Natalie Baker underscored the profound significance of Freedom 250, not only as a milestone in American history, but as a celebration of the shared values of liberty, democracy, and partnership that bind the United States and Pakistan together. Chargé Baker reflected on America’s founding ideals and how they continue to inspire people and nations around the world.
“Tonight, we celebrate 250 years of American freedom, nearly 80 years of friendship between our two peoples, and everything we are going to build together in the years ahead. The best is not behind us. It is in front of us, and we are going to get there together.” said Chargé Baker.
The program featured the presentation of Colors by the U.S. Marine Corps Color Guard, renditions of the Pakistani and U.S. national anthems, and musical performances by the U.S. Air Force Central Command Band and Bilal Saeed. The celebration culminated in a spectacular fireworks display that lit up the Islamabad sky, a fitting tribute to America’s 250th birthday and a symbol of the bright future that the United States and Pakistan are building together.
Freedom 250 is a sweeping, year-long series of events organized by U.S. missions around the world to commemorate the 250th year of the signing of the U.S. Declaration of Independence. President Trump launched the national celebration under the banner “A New Era of American Greatness,” and U.S. embassies and consulates have since carried that spirit to every corner of the globe.
Watch the Chargé d’Affaires Natalie Baker’s remarks on YouTube:
# # #