Two groups of family-based immigrant visa categories, immediate relatives and family preference, are provided under the provisions of United States immigration law, specifically the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA). You can learn more about these two categories of immigrant visas on usvisas.state.gov .
To apply for an immediate relative or family preference immigrant visas, follow the Immigrant Visa Process steps on usvisas.state.gov. Once you have completed those steps, review the instructions given to you by the National Visa Center (NVC), along with the information presented on this website, for further guidance.
The Interview
After you have completed the steps on the Immigrant Visa Process on usvisas.state.gov , including paying the necessary fees and submitting the required immigrant visa application form (DS-260), Affidavit of Support, and supporting documents to the National Visa Center (NVC), they will review your file for completeness. Once your case becomes qualified for an interview, NVC will work with us to schedule an interview appointment for you.
You can learn more about the interview process on usvisas.state.gov.
Case Status
At the end of your immigrant visa interview, the consular officer will inform you whether your visa application is approved or denied.
Some visa applications require further administrative processing , which takes additional time after the visa applicant’s interview by a consular officer. Applicants are advised of this requirement when they apply. Most administrative processing is resolved within 60 days of the visa interview. When administrative processing is required, the timing will vary based on the individual circumstances of each case. You can check the status of your visa application on ceac.state.gov .
If your visa has been denied, you may find useful information on ineligibilities and waivers on usvisas.state.gov.
After the Interview
If your visa has been approved, you will be informed how and when your passport and visa will be returned to you. Carefully review After the Interview on usvisas.state.gov to learn what to do when you receive your visa, entering the United States, paying the USCIS Immigrant Fee, and other important information.