An official website of the United States government
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Worldwide Caution: The Department of State advises Americans worldwide to exercise increased caution.
The purpose of the FNSIP is to offer foreign national students accepted into the program the unique opportunity of experiencing foreign affairs work environment and ensure provision of an educational experience to the student. The internship does not offer compensation or future employment rights.
Any student participating in the FNSIP is not an employee of the U.S. Mission in Pakistan, or the U.S. Department of State, or the United States Government (USG). Students’ participation is not creditable for any employment benefits.
To be eligible for the SNSIP, students must meet ALL the following criteria:
Minimum Age: Applicants must be at least 18 years old at the time of participation in the program.
Citizenship/Legal Residence: Applicants must be a citizen or permanent legal resident of Pakistan. Students who are permanent legal residents of Pakistan, must provide proof of citizenship or legal residency status and if required by Pakistan law, proof of authorization to work.
Meet Definition of Student: Applicants must be a student in a local education institution and meet the definition of a student. Students who are eligible to participate in the FNSIP are defined as follow: “A student is an individual who is enrolled not less than half-time in a high school, trade school, technical or vocational institute, junior college, college, university, or their accredited educational institution”. An individual who is a student is deemed not to have ceased to be a student during an interim between school years if the interim is not more than 5 months and if such individual shows to the satisfaction of the employer that the individual has a bona fide intention of continuing to pursue a course of study or training in the same or different educational institution during the school semester (or other period into which the school year is divided) immediately after the interim. NOTE: To be considered for the FNSIP, students must have graduated from high school or equivalent secondary school prior to beginning the program and must be at least 18 years old. Also, there is not a break of service for purposes of this requirement if an individual is receiving academic credit for the internship, even if not otherwise taking classes.
Transcript and Permission: Applicants must be in good academic standing at their current educational institution and must provide a certified transcript verifying this. Applicants must also provide written permission from their educational institution at which they are currently enrolled to participate in the FNSIP.
Security Certification: Applicants MUST receive a successful security certification from the U.S. Embassy prior to beginning the program.
To be considered eligible, the prospective Student must provide the following including any certifications, licenses and proficiencies as required:
Duration: 8 Weeks | Full time (40 hours per week)
| No. | Title | Opening Date | Closing Date | No. of interns required |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| 1 | American Center- Public Diplomacy | March 04, 2024 | March 17, 2024 | 3 Interns |
| 2 | Human Resources Office | March 04, 2024 | March 17, 2024 | 4 Interns |
| 3 | Community Liaison Office | March 04, 2024 | March 17, 2024 | 1 Intern |
| 4 | Economic Office | March 04, 2024 | March 17, 2024 | 1 Intern |
| 5 | International Narcotics Affairs – Gender, Corrections, and Rule of Law Team | March 04, 2024 | March 17, 2024 | 1 Intern |
| 6 | Facility Management Office – Horticulturist | March 04, 2024 | March 17, 2024 | 1 Intern |
| 7 | Facility Management Office – Engineering Unit | March 04, 2024 | March 17, 2024 | 3 Interns |
| 8 | Information Systems Center | March 04, 2024 | March 17, 2024 | 2 Interns |
What is the duration of FNSIP?
The Foreign National Student Intern Program (FNSIP) will be conducted during summer months between May and September. The duration of each internship depends on the nature of assignment and will vary from six to eight weeks with daily commitment hours of four to eight hours.
I am enrolled in a Pakistani Educational Institute, but I am not Pakistani, can I apply?
Applicants must be a citizen or permanent legal resident of Pakistan. Students who are permanent legal residents of Pakistan, must provide proof of citizenship or legal residency status and if required by Pakistan law, proof of authorization to work. How do I submit my application?
Eligible students can visit the vacancies announcement page to review the available internship positions and requirements and apply using the provided application form. All applications must be submitted via email to PakInternship@state.gov. No other methods of applying will be accepted.
How are FNSIP interns selected?
FNSIP candidates must fully meet all the requirements of the available internship vacancies. The sponsoring section will make decisions on who will be invited for an interview, testing and make the final decision on selected candidates.
How can I withdraw my FNSIP application?
If any student would like to withdraw their application, an email to PakInternship@state.gov must be sent stating that you no longer wish to proceed with the application. Please state your name and intern position in the subject line.
Who can attest my documents?
Documents can be attested by any gazetted officer.
Do I need to attest my original transcript or just a copy?
Only a copy of most recent transcript needs to be attested as a proof of good academic standing. Original official transcript will be required if student is selected.
Can I submit my attested passport bio page if my national identity card is not available?
Yes, student can provide attested copy of passport bio page as a picture ID in case national identity card is not available.
I just graduated; can I apply for internship program?
This program is only valid for full time or current students.
Is it a paid internship program?
No, this internship does not offer compensation or future employment rights.
Should I submit handwritten statement of interest form, or it must be computer typed?
Statement of interest form can be submitted in any format, handwritten, or typed; both are accepted.
Who are Foreign National Students (FNS)?
All Pakistani national students are considered as foreign national students.
We use cookies to make our website work better and improve your experience. By continuing to use the site, you agree to our privacy policy.
Please call: +92–51–201–4000 or 5000
Outside of Office Hours, contact: +92–51–201–4000 or 5000
Outside of Pakistan: 0092–51–201–4000 or 5000 or 1-888-407-4747
Emergency Contact – All Locations Get Travel Alerts International Parental Child Abduction Arrest of a U.S. Citizen Death of a U.S. Citizen Victims of Crime Emergency Financial Assistance