An official website of the United States government
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Worldwide Caution: The Department of State advises Americans worldwide to exercise increased caution.
The mission of the U.S. Embassy in Islamabad–and the Consulates in Peshawar, Lahore, and Karachi–is to promote bilateral ties between the United States and Pakistan and to foster economic and commercial relations. Embassy activities focus on strengthening democratic institutions, promoting nonproliferation and regional stability, fighting international terrorism, combating narcotics production and trafficking, and fostering expanded trade and investment.
The U.S. Embassy’s Office of Public Affairs in Islamabad offers a wealth of information on all facets of life in the United States, and also provides a forum for U.S.-Pakistani cultural exchanges. The American Center has extensive information on a variety of topics, including current and historical events and educational opportunities in the United States.
Like every U.S. Mission around the world, the Embassy hopes that better communication between our two countries will improve mutual understanding, foster democratic ideals, improve human rights, and provide for a healthier global environment and a safer world.
Our ACS Navigator will help you find resources, information and services offered by the U.S. Mission Pakistan. Check out the ACS Navigator or scan the QR code to access it from your phone.
If you are an American citizen with an emergency, please call (+92) 051-201-4000. During working hours, please ask to be connected to the ACS Unit. After hours or on weekends, please ask to be connected to the Duty Officer. Information on visa cases is not given out over the phone.  Please do not call the American Citizen Services Unit for visa information.
If you wish to inquire about a visa case, you may send an email to us through our visa inquiry pages (see below for links), send a fax to +92-51-233-8071, or send a letter through a courier service or by surface mail. Information on visa cases is not given out over the phone.
To check the status of a non-immigrant visa application visit: Non-Immigrant Visa Inquiries
To check the status of an immigrant visa application visit: Immigrant Visa Inquiries
For information about Diversity Visa Lottery e-mails: Any e-mail notice stating you won a U.S. Diversity Visa is a fraud. Please see State Department’s Diversity Visa page for more details.
Please do not send us unsolicited CVs. They will not be seen. The Embassy Human Resources Office is responsible for hiring new employees. To view all advertised positions, please visit: Current Vacancies
The U.S. Government, through its U.S. Embassy in Islamabad, has procurement and contracting requirements throughout the year to receive supplies and services. Requests for Proposal / Quotation (RFP/RFQ) are required to allow the Embassy to more accurately budget for these supplies and services; these will be announced on this Embassy website. Many will also be advertised in the SAM.GOV website for Contract Opportunities at https://sam.gov (formerly Federal Business Opportunities – FedBizOps).
The U.S. Mission to Pakistan Public Diplomacy Section of the U.S. Department of State sponsors funding opportunities annually through its Public Diplomacy grants program. The award of grants or cooperative agreements is subject to the availability of funding. PD typically posts funding opportunities between January and June each year.
The majority of countries in the world have a system of intellectual property protection and enforcement because it encourages innovation and creativity, which in turn leads to economic prosperity of the nation.
We use cookies to make our website work better and improve your experience. By continuing to use the site, you agree to our privacy policy.
Please call: +92–51–201–4000 or 5000
Outside of Office Hours, contact: +92–51–201–4000 or 5000
Outside of Pakistan: 0092–51–201–4000 or 5000 or 1-888-407-4747
Emergency Contact – All Locations Get Travel Alerts International Parental Child Abduction Arrest of a U.S. Citizen Death of a U.S. Citizen Victims of Crime Emergency Financial Assistance