An official website of the United States government
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Worldwide Caution: The Department of State advises Americans worldwide to exercise increased caution.
Thank you for your interest in employment with the U.S. Mission in Pakistan. To view a current list of all available positions at the U.S. Mission in Pakistan and to apply online, please visit our ERA site .
All applications must be submitted through ERA to be considered.
The Family Liaison Office has a dedicated team of professionals working to expand employment options and information resources for family members, both at home and abroad. Learn more about our programs or begin your employment planning.
Pre-employment clearance checks can take some time. Please note that if you have traveled extensively, have lived in many places, have held many jobs, verifying the information you have provided on your security form will take longer. Therefore, your security certification to work at the Embassy will potentially take longer to issue.
Similarly, if medical issues arise, which can be treated within a reasonable amount of time, this may delay your medical clearance being issued.
When Should I Give Notice?
You will need to be certified by both our security and medical departments before you can begin work with the Embassy, therefore we would always recommend not handing in your notice to your current employer before you have received full clearances.
Available Translations
Things To Review Before Applying
Pre-Employment Clearances
Whether you’re an undergraduate or postgraduate student seeking a substantive internship or fellowship supporting U.S. foreign policy, there’s no limit as to how far our opportunities can take you. You’ll have the opportunity to gain insight into U.S. foreign policy and diplomacy, explore new career avenues, and acquire lifelong skills as you represent America to the world.
Diplomats in Residence (DIRs) are career Foreign Service Officers and Specialists located throughout the U.S. who provide guidance and advice on careers, internships and fellowships to students and professionals in the communities they serve. DIRs are available to answer questions and share insight with those interested in Foreign and Civil Service careers, internships and fellowships.
The mission of a U.S. diplomat in the Foreign Service is to promote peace, support prosperity, and protect American citizens while advancing the interests of the U.S. abroad. If you’re passionate about public service and want to represent the U.S. around the world, a challenging and rewarding career is waiting for you. The opportunity to work and experience cultures, customs and people of different nations is truly a career unlike any other.
The work you’ll do will have an impact on the world. You will be asked to serve at one of any of the more than 270 embassies, consulates and other diplomatic missions in The Americas, Africa, Europe and Eurasia, East Asia and Pacific, Middle East and North Africa, and South Asia. Some of these posts are in difficult and even dangerous environments, but working in them affords great challenges and rewards.
Diplomats in Residence
Most U.S. Missions list vacancies on their own websites.  Use the worldwide map of U.S. Missions  to locate employment opportunities in specific countries.
For enquiries regarding Department of State employment, for example for the U.S. Foreign Service or the Internship Program, please visit careers.state.gov .
For American Citizens interested in employment with the Department of State, including U.S. Foreign Service or other internship and fellowship opportunities, please visit careers.state.gov .
The purpose of the FNSIP is to offer foreign national students accepted into the program the unique opportunity of experiencing a foreign affairs work environment and ensure provision of an educational experience to the student. The internship does not offer compensation or future employment rights.
Department of State Opportunities Outside Pakistan
We use cookies to make our website work better and improve your experience. By continuing to use the site, you agree to our privacy policy.
Please call: +92–51–201–4000 or 5000
Outside of Office Hours, contact: +92–51–201–4000 or 5000
Outside of Pakistan: 0092–51–201–4000 or 5000 or 1-888-407-4747
Emergency Contact – All Locations Get Travel Alerts International Parental Child Abduction Arrest of a U.S. Citizen Death of a U.S. Citizen Victims of Crime Emergency Financial Assistance