An official website of the United States government
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Worldwide Caution: The Department of State advises Americans worldwide to exercise increased caution.
Welcome to the U.S. Consulate Karachi website!
The Consulate General of the United States in Karachi is the diplomatic mission of the United States in Sindh and Balochistan provinces. It operates under the authority of the United States Ambassador to Pakistan. The Consulate coordinates with the U.S. Embassy in Islamabad and the United States Consulates in Lahore and Peshawar to ensure strong relations between the peoples of the United States and Pakistan.
Our ACS Karachi Navigator will help you find resources, information and services offered by the U.S. Mission Pakistan. Check out the ACS Navigator or scan the QR code to access it from your phone.
If you are an American citizen with an emergency, please call (+92) 051-201-4000. During working hours, please ask to be connected to the ACS Unit. After hours or on weekends, please ask to be connected to the Duty Officer. Information on visa cases is not given out over the phone.  Please do not call the American Citizen Services Unit for visa information.
Looking for assistance from the Nonimmigrant Visa Units in U.S. Embassy Islamabad or Consulate General Karachi? Our NIV Navigator will help you find resources and information about nonimmigrant visa services offered by the U.S. Mission in Pakistan. You can click on Nonimmigrant Visa Navigator or scan the QR code to access it from your phone.
To request a U.S. Passport and/or Notary appointment at the U.S. Consulate General in Karachi, please use the Consulate’s online appointment system .
To request a Consular Report of Birth Abroad (CRBA) appointment at the U.S. Consulate General in Karachi, please use our ACS Karachi Navigator.
To Make an Appointment:
Hours:
The visa section of the U.S. Consulate General, Karachi, conducts nonimmigrant visa interviews, by appointment only, from 7:30 am to 1:00 pm, Monday through Friday, except for Pakistani and American public holidays and administrative closures.
The Contracting and Procurement Unit in U.S. Consulate General Karachi Pakistan, seeks to enter into business with qualified and reliable firms with sufficient resources and work experience for delivering and performing a variety of commodities and/or services. The company shall be able to understand and comply with all requirements in the Request for Quote/Proposal (RFQ/P) in order to be considered for business with the United States Government in Pakistan.
Lawful Permanent Resident (LPR) status permits foreign nationals to legally reside in the United States. The status is often associated with having a “green card.” Despite the travel complexities caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, the LPR’s responsibilities, including maintaining permanent resident status, have remained the same. LPRs who remain outside of the United States for an extended period of time may lose their LPR status.
The U.S. Embassy and Consulates’ air quality monitors measure airborne fine particulate matter (commonly referred to as PM 2.5 because the particulates are less than or equal to 2.5 microns in diameter) around their premises. Data from a single monitoring station cannot be applied to an entire city. Therefore, air quality data collected at the U.S. Embassy and Consulates may differ from readings shown by other monitors in the same cities.
We use cookies to make our website work better and improve your experience. By continuing to use the site, you agree to our privacy policy.
Please call: +92–51–201–4000 or 5000
Outside of Office Hours, contact: +92–51–201–4000 or 5000
Outside of Pakistan: 0092–51–201–4000 or 5000 or 1-888-407-4747
Emergency Contact – All Locations Get Travel Alerts International Parental Child Abduction Arrest of a U.S. Citizen Death of a U.S. Citizen Victims of Crime Emergency Financial Assistance