An official website of the United States government
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Worldwide Caution: The Department of State advises Americans worldwide to exercise increased caution.
The U.S. Consulate General Lahore represents the U.S. Government in Punjab, Pakistan. It operates under the authority of the U.S. Ambassador in Islamabad. In addition to the Department of State, represented in Lahore is the Department of Commerce.
The Consulate General is located at 50, Sharah-e-Abdul Hameed Bin Badees, (Old Empress Road) near Shimla Hill and is open from Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Our phone number is (042) 3603-4000 and the Fax No. is (042) 3603-4200.
The nearest visa services in Pakistan are provided at the American Embassy in Islamabad. The Consular Section at the Embassy may be contacted directly following the information provided on our Visas page.
Our ACS Lahore Navigator will help you find resources, information and services offered by the U.S. Mission Pakistan. Check out the ACS Navigator or scan the QR code to access it from your phone.
If you have an emergency involving a U.S. citizen in Punjab, you can reach us during normal business hours via the main number: +92-42-3603-4000. After business hours, please contact the U.S. Embassy in Islamabad at (+92) (51) 201-4000 or 5000. Information on visa cases is not given out over the phone.  Please do not call the American Citizen Services Unit for visa information.
Looking for assistance from the Nonimmigrant Visa Units in U.S. Embassy Islamabad or Consulate General Lahore? Our NIV Navigator will help you find resources and information about nonimmigrant visa services offered by the U.S. Mission in Pakistan. You can click on Nonimmigrant Visa Navigator or scan the QR code to access it from your phone.
To request a U.S. Passport and/or Notary appointment at the U.S. Consulate General in Lahore, please use the Consulate’s online appointment system .
To request a Consular Report of Birth Abroad (CRBA) appointment at the U.S. Consulate General in Lahore, please use our ACS Lahore Navigator.
If you have an emergency involving a U.S. citizen in Punjab, you can reach us during normal business hours via the main number: +92-42-3603-4000. After business hours, please contact the U.S. Embassy in Islamabad at (+92) (51) 201-4000 or 5000.
Please note that this number is not for visa inquiries. If you are a U.S. citizen from other provinces, please contact U.S. Embassy Islamabad or U.S. Consulate General Karachi for assistance.
If your passport is lost or stolen, see the passports page about what to do next.
For Emergency Legal assistance, see our list of available attorneys.
Make an Appointment
The Public Diplomacy team at U.S. Consulate Lahore aims to strengthen people-to-people ties between the United States and Punjab. Lahore is Pakistan’s second-largest media hub with a vibrant arts, culture, and music scene. The press team at Consulate Lahore engages with journalists, issues press releases, and conducts media training programs.
We provide information and assistance to U.S. Citizens in the province of Punjab. If you reside in any other province in Pakistan, please contact either the U.S. Embassy Islamabad or the U.S. Consulate Karachi for ACS assistance.
Please Note: The U.S. Consulate General Lahore does not process visas and the ACS section is unable to answer any visa related inquiries! Please click here for more information on visas.
Routine Services (Passports, Reports of Birth Abroad, Notarial Services, Social Security etc.): We require an appointment for all routine services. Please click here for more information.
U.S. Citizen Services Lahore
All RFP/RFQ, solicitation announcements and awarded contracts will include all applicable provisions and clauses. All companies, firms, and agencies that respond to the solicitation must be technically qualified, financially responsible, and have the necessary personnel, satisfactory record of performance, satisfactory record of integrity and business ethics, equipment, licenses, and permits required by local authority.
We use cookies to make our website work better and improve your experience. By continuing to use the site, you agree to our privacy policy.
Please call: +92–51–201–4000 or 5000
Outside of Office Hours, contact: +92–51–201–4000 or 5000
Outside of Pakistan: 0092–51–201–4000 or 5000 or 1-888-407-4747
Emergency Contact – All Locations Get Travel Alerts International Parental Child Abduction Arrest of a U.S. Citizen Death of a U.S. Citizen Victims of Crime Emergency Financial Assistance