July 22, 2026 – Worldwide Caution for U.S. Citizens
The Department of State advises Americans worldwide to exercise increased caution.
Location: Worldwide
Event: Due to heightened tensions in the Middle East, the security environment remains complex with the potential for unforeseen escalation.
Americans currently in the Middle East should exercise caution and heightened vigilance and should be prepared for flight cancellations, periodic airspace closures, and potential travel disruptions. Some airlines in the region have postponed resumption of earlier flight schedules; others have cancelled some routes.
Americans outside the Middle East should reconsider travel to and through the region. Those who do travel to or from the region should monitor information about airport and airline operations.
U.S. diplomatic facilities, including outside the Middle East, have been targeted. Iran and groups supportive of Iran may target other U.S. interests overseas or at locations associated with the United States and Americans throughout the world, including U.S. businesses and other institutions.
Actions to Take
- Americans traveling in or through the region should check with their air carriers to make sure their flights are still scheduled.
- Contact your airline directly for flight change details if your flight is affected.
- Monitor embassy and consular security alerts and the news for breaking developments.
- Follow the instructions of local authorities.
Enroll at step.state.gov to receive the latest security alerts and follow the “U.S. Department of State – Security Updates for U.S. Citizens” channel on WhatsApp or @TravelGov on X . When planning travel, carefully read the Travel Advisory and detailed information for your destination, and any recent alerts at travel.state.gov/destination .
If you are a registered user, you can manage your subscriptions by clicking the link below. Guest subscribers cannot manage subscriptions but can create a Login.gov account to manage future subscriptions.