An official website of the United States government
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Worldwide Caution: The Department of State advises Americans worldwide to exercise increased caution.
We require an appointment for all routine services. The online appointment system allows you to schedule your appointment in a time slot that suits you. This process is fast and easy and improves the quality & efficiency of services that we provide.
From routine citizenship and documentation questions to all manner of emergencies, the U.S. Embassy and Consulates are pleased to provide information and assistance for U.S. citizens in Pakistan!
To get started, please use the link below to the “navigator” for your nearest Consulate. The navigator will ask a series of simple questions to direct you to online information on the most common topics, OR provide instructions on how to contact us by email for less common questions:
The Department of State assists U.S. citizens imprisoned overseas and works to ensure their fair and humane treatment.
The Department of State helps the family and friends of U.S. citizens who die abroad. We inform the U.S. citizen’s next-of-kin of the death and we provide information on arrangements for local burial or the return of remains to the United States and on disposition of estates and personal effects. We also issue a Consular Report of Death Abroad, an official record of death.
The Department of State’s Office of Children’s Issues works to resolve and prevent cases of international parental child abduction and to help children and families involved in abduction cases. For more information, see our international parental child abduction page on travel.state.gov.
The Department of State helps U.S. citizens who are victims of crime overseas. We connect crime victims with police and other services and provide information and resources to assist with physical, emotional, and/or financial injuries from crime.
If you are concerned about the welfare of a U.S. citizen friend or family member in Pakistan, or if you need to contact them in an emergency, the Embassy can help.
If you need the Embassy to check on the welfare or whereabouts of an U.S. citizen in Pakistan, please contact the Embassy at (+92) 51-201-4000 or (+92) 51-201-5000. From the United States, call the Department of State at 1-888-407-4747. You may also email us at ACSIslamabad@state.gov.
Questions?
Welfare of a U.S. Citizen
U.S. citizens in need of emergency financial assistance while abroad should first attempt to contact their family, friends, banking institution, or employer. Our American Citizen Services unit can assist in this effort, if necessary.
Use a commercial money transfer service, such as Western Union or MoneyGram. , to wire money overseas. Money transfer cost comparison tools online can help you identify the best option. The person receiving the money will need to present proof of identity such as a passport. Link text: Be wary of International Financial Scams.
When the commercial options listed above are not available or feasible, family or friends may send funds via the U.S. Department of State for delivery to a destitute U.S. citizen abroad at the nearest U.S. embassy or consulate. The U.S. Department of State assesses a $30 fee to establish an account and transfer funds.
Destitute U.S. citizens may be eligible for a loan from the U.S. government to travel to the United States. Repatriation loans must eventually be paid back to the U.S. government. Your U.S. passports will be limited at the time the loan is issued and in most cases you will not be issued a new passport until the loan is paid in full. Contact us for more information.
Consular Affairs (CA) is the public face of the Department of State for millions of people around the world. We provide many services, and the most common are listed below.
If you are a U.S. citizen or Lawful Permanent Resident (green card holder), you are responsible for filing U.S. federal income tax returns while abroad. You will find useful information on the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) website, such as Frequently Asked Questions about taxes or how to apply for an Individual Taxpayer Identification Number (ITIN).
If you are a U.S. dual citizen or U.S. citizen living outside of the United States, you can register with the Selective Service System.
If you live in Pakistan and have questions about Social Security Administration (SSA) services, contact the SSA Federal Benefits Unit (FBU) in
U.S. service members, veterans, and their beneficiaries can apply for benefits on the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) website. The Federal Benefits Unit (FBU) may also be able to help veterans and beneficiaries with questions about benefits and services.
Depending on where you are eligible to vote, you may get your ballot by email, fax, or internet download. To start, complete a Federal Post Card Application (FPCA) here. Print, sign, and return the FPCA to your local U.S. election office. Include your email address so election officials can reach you if there is a problem. If your state delivers ballots electronically by fax only, include your fax number. If you request electronic delivery and include your email address or fax number, you will receive your blank ballot 45 days before general and mid-term elections and generally 30 days before special, primary, and run-off elections for federal offices. We recommend completing a new FPCA each January, or when you move. If you would like more information, you may call 703-588-1584 (toll free 1-800-438-VOTE or DSN 425-1584), or email (vote@fvap.gov).
Anyone who commits a crime in Pakistan, including U.S. citizens, is subject to prosecution under the Pakistan legal system. A U.S. passport does not entitle its bearer to any special privileges, and will not help you avoid arrest, prosecution or prison sentences. The following list of attorneys practicing in Pakistanis provided as a service to American citizens seeking legal advice. The Embassy is not permitted to provide legal advice nor to recommend specific attorneys. However, the attorneys listed below are of good repute, and have either handled cases for Americans satisfactorily or been recommended to us by well-placed sources. As in the U. S., attorney fees in Pakistan vary according to the experience and qualifications of the attorney. We advise any American to discuss the fees with a prospective attorney in advance, and to determine the best method of communication with the attorney (either in person, by phone, or fax/e-mail) given language and/or time zone problems.
If an American citizen becomes seriously ill or injured abroad, the embassy or consulate can assist in locating appropriate medical services and informing family or friends. If necessary, a consular officer can also assist in the transfer of funds from the United States. However, payment of hospital and other expenses is the responsibility of the traveler. More information can be found on the Department of State site at Your Health Abroad.
The United States is a party to the Hague Adoption Convention, an international treaty which seeks to ensure that intercountry adoptions are made in the best interests of the child and that safeguards are in place for their protection. All adoptions in another country must take place according to both U.S. and local laws for the adopted child to be eligible to immigrate to the United States. You should work with a U.S. adoption service provider specifically authorized to facilitate intercountry adoption. You can find more information about authorized adoption service providers and the intercountry adoption process at travel.state.gov and are invited to direct questions to Adoption@state.gov.
If you have a child outside the United States the child may have acquired U.S. citizenship at birth if the requirements under the Immigration and Nationality Act have been met as of the time of your child’s birth. To determine whether your child acquired U.S. citizenship at birth and to document that, you can apply for a Consular Report of Birth Abroad (CRBA) for your child. You may also choose to just apply for a U.S. passport for your child, although one benefit of a CRBA is that, unlike the U.S. passport, it does not expire and may be used as proof of acquisition of U.S. citizenship at birth. A full validity, unexpired U.S. passport is also proof of U.S. citizenship.
U.S. embassy and consulate personnel cannot perform marriages. Depending on the local law, civil or religious officials generally perform marriages. If your marriage overseas was performed in accordance with local law, it is valid in the country where it took place. Whether your marriage is recognized elsewhere depends on the laws of that place.
If you get married abroad and need to know if your marriage will be recognized in the United States and what documentation may be needed, contact the office of the Attorney General of your state of residence in the United States.
Transmission of U.S. citizenship depends on:
Generally, immediate family members may accompany passport or CRBA applicants to their appointment interviews at a U.S. embassy or consulate, and all minor children must be accompanied by a parent or guardian. Passport or CRBA applicants also have the option of being accompanied by an attorney at their appointment interview.
Intercountry Adoption
We use cookies to make our website work better and improve your experience. By continuing to use the site, you agree to our privacy policy.
Please call: +92–51–201–4000 or 5000
Outside of Office Hours, contact: +92–51–201–4000 or 5000
Outside of Pakistan: 0092–51–201–4000 or 5000 or 1-888-407-4747
Emergency Contact – All Locations Get Travel Alerts International Parental Child Abduction Arrest of a U.S. Citizen Death of a U.S. Citizen Victims of Crime Emergency Financial Assistance