Download
For Immediate Release
Embassy of the United States, Islamabad
June 18, 2026
U.S. Embassy Islamabad Convenes Freedom 250 Arts Entrepreneurship Showcase
Islamabad, Pakistan: June 18, 2026 – Today, the U.S. Embassy in Islamabad hosted an “Arts Entrepreneurship Showcase” at the United States Educational Foundation in Pakistan (USEFP) that convened artists, designers, entrepreneurs and cultural leaders to celebrate the power of creative industries to drive economic growth, strengthen bilateral ties, and connect people across cultures. U.S. Chargé d’Affaires (CDA) Natalie Baker and celebrated Pakistani fashion designer HSY headlined the event, moderated by renowned broadcaster and filmmaker Tauseeq Haider.
The showcase, held as part of the United States’ Freedom 250 initiative marking the 250th anniversary of American independence, featured three signature elements: A Freedom 250 entrepreneurship lecture to share American business expertise and best practices, an alumni arts marketplace showcasing the work of 20 Pakistan-U.S. Alumni Network (PUAN) alumni active in Pakistan’s creative industries, and a fashion runway show presenting 250 years of American design, culture, and textile innovation. Together, these elements reflected the depth and strength of the U.S.-Pakistan bilateral relationship across business, culture, and the arts.
Speaking on the occasion, CDA Baker noted the unique capacity of the arts to forge lasting connections between nations and people, “The textile industry is one of the most powerful linkages between our two countries. Over the past five years, Pakistani exports of finished apparel and clothing products to the United States have averaged over $4 billion dollars,” she said, adding, “Many of these garments were made from American cotton, with Pakistan importing nearly $800 million in U.S. cotton and other raw cotton inputs annually. In fact, the United States is Pakistan’s second-largest supplier of cotton, underscoring how deeply interconnected our textile supply chains are—from American fields to Pakistani factories to global markets. Pakistan is also one of the world’s leading producers of denim fabric and garments, and there is a good chance that the jeans sold in American stores began their journey right here in Pakistan. Just look at a pair of Levi’s jeans for a powerful reminder that the U.S. – Pakistan relationship is woven into the everyday lives of people in both countries.”
CDA Baker underscored the U.S. commitment to creative entrepreneurship as a driver of economic opportunity and bilateral partnership saying, “The United States has long believed in the power of creative industries to fuel progress and economic growth. It has been a part of our national identity since 1776. American excellence in the arts and design comes not only from talent, but from a culture that encourages experimentation, entrepreneurship, and bold new ideas. American creative industries continue to shape global conversations and inspire audiences around the world.”
A highlight of the evening, the runway show brought 250 years of American fashion to life through textiles, design, and cultural storytelling serving as a vivid, visual expression of America’s creative heritage and its ongoing capacity for reinvention.
The Freedom 250 initiative marks the United States’ 250th anniversary of independence through a year-long series of events, partnerships, and programs that celebrate American excellence, promote U.S. values, and deepen bilateral relationships with partner nations around the world.
###