Passports, Visas, and Arrival/Departure Records (admission stamp or paper Form I-94) are official travel documents that foreign citizens coming to the United States (U.S.) must have in their possession to show their country of citizenship and legal status in the United States.
We encourage travelers to make a copy of their passport biographic page, U.S. visa and admission stamp or paper Form I-94, if provided, as soon as possible after their arrival in the United States. If you are a foreign citizen temporarily in the United States, and you lose your U.S. visa, you can remain for the duration of your authorized stay, as shown on your admission stamp or paper Form I-94, Arrival/Departure Record. You will need a valid passport to depart the United States and to enter another country. If you were issued a paper Form I-94 and it was lost or stolen, you must get it replaced immediately. There are a number of steps you need to take as follows:
Go to the local police station and report your document(s) lost or stolen. If available, you will need to provide copies of the original documents. You will be issued a police report detailing the incident. Don’t forget to make an extra copy of the report for your own records.
Replacement of a lost or stolen Form I-94 falls under the responsibility of Department of Homeland Security (DHS). To file for a replacement I-94, see Application for Replacement/Initial Nonimmigrant Arrival-Departure Document at the DHS, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) website and see Arrival-Departure Record at the DHS, Customs and Border Protection (CBP) website.
Contact the local embassy or consular section for the country of your citizenship for information about the procedure to replace a lost or stolen passport. Most countries have Internet web sites with contact information.
To report your visa lost or stolen, email the Consular Section at the U.S. Embassy or Consulate outside the United States which issued your visa. Go to the U.S. Embassy or Consulate website to locate the email address and contact information. Be sure to include your full name, date of birth, place of birth, address in the United States, and an e-mail address (if available). Specifically state whether the visa was lost or stolen. If you have a copy of the passport or visa, scan and email this to the embassy or consulate. Otherwise, if known, report the category of visa, and the passport number from the lost/stolen visa.
If you have already reported your visa lost/stolen to the U.S. Embassy or Consulate, and then you later find your misplaced visa, then your visa will be invalid for future travel to the United States. Therefore, in that situation you must apply for a new visa at the U.S. Embassy or Consulate.
Lost or stolen U.S. visas cannot be replaced in the United States. For replacement of a visa, you must apply in person at a U.S. Embassy or Consulate abroad. When applying for the replacement of a visa, you will need to provide a written account documenting the loss of your passport and visa. Include a copy of the police report.