Generally, a citizen of a foreign country who wishes to enter the United States must first be granted a visa. Either a nonimmigrant visa for a temporary stay, or an immigrant visa to permanently move to the United States. Exchange visitor (J) visas are nonimmigrant visas for individuals approved to participate in exchange visitor programs in the United States.
Exchange Visitors cannot travel on the Visa Waiver Program or with Visitor (B1/B2) Visas –
Exchange Visitors participating in an exchange program must be issued an exchange visitor visa, or J-visa, to travel to the U.S.
Foreign nationals may not travel to the U.S. to participate in an exchange on a visitor (B1/B2) visa, or through the Visa Waiver Program (VWP). For more information see Visa Waiver Program.
Acceptance in Exchange Visitor Program –
There are several steps to apply for a visa. The order of these steps and how you complete them may vary by U.S. Embassy or Consulate. Please consult the instructions on the embassy or consulate website.
Interviews are generally required for visa applicants with certain limited exceptions. Consular officers may require an interview of any visa applicant.
You should generally schedule an appointment for your visa interview at the U.S. Embassy or Consulate in the country where you live. You may schedule your interview at another U.S. Embassy or Consulate, but be aware that in some cases it may be more difficult to demonstrate that you qualify for a visa outside of the country where you live. Wait times for interview appointments vary by location, season, and visa category. You should apply for your visa early. Review the interview wait time for the location where you will apply:
Gather and prepare the following required documents before your visa interview:
You must read the Legal Rights and Protections pamphlet to learn about your rights in the United States and protection available to you. Review this important pamphlet before applying for your visa.
The website where you apply may suggest or require you provide additional documents related to:
Evidence of your employment and/or your family ties may be enough to show your reason for travel and your intent to return to your home country. If you cannot cover all the costs for your travel, you may show evidence that another person will cover some or all costs for your travel.
Review the instructions for how to apply for a visa on the website of the embassy or consulate where you will apply.
A consular officer will interview you to determine whether you are qualified to receive an exchange visitor visa. You must establish that you meet the requirements under U.S. law to receive a visa.
Ink-free, digital fingerprint scans are taken as part of the application process. They are usually taken during your interview, but this varies based on location.
After your visa interview, the consular officer may determine that your application requires further administrative processing. The consular officer will inform you if this is required.
After your visa is approved, you may need to pay a visa issuance fee (if applicable). You will also need to make arrangements for your passport and visa to be returned to you. Review the visa processing times to learn more.
If you participate in an Exchange Visitor Program and meet one of the criteria below, at the end of your program you must return to your home country for two years. This requirement under immigration law is based on section 212(e) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.
Conditions for the Two-year Home-country Physical Presence Requirement - J-visa holders must follow the two-year home-country physical presence requirement if the following is true:
Restrictions - If the two-year home-country physical presence requirement applies to you, you must return to your home country for a cumulative total period of at least two years before you can do any of the following:
Waiver of Two Year Home-Country Physical Presence Rule - If you are subject to the requirement to return to your home country, you may pursue a waiver of the requirement. Select Waiver of the Exchange Visitor Two-Year Home-Country Physical Presence Requirement to learn more about this requirement and how to request a waiver.
A visa does not guarantee entry into the United States. A visa only allows a foreign citizen to travel to a U.S. port-of-entry (generally an airport or land border) and request permission to enter the United States. The Department of Homeland Security (DHS), U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officials at the port of entry have authority to permit or deny admission to the United States.
After you present your passport, visa, and DS-2019 at the port-of-entry, a CBP official will make this decision. Once you are allowed to enter the United States, the CBP official will provide an admission stamp or paper Form I-94, Arrival/Departure Record.
Learn about procedures for students (with F or M visas) or exchange visitors (J Visas) entering the United States on the CBP website under Arrival Procedures for Students or Exchange Visitors. Visit the CBP website to find out about entering the United States. Learn about rules, restrictions, and what food and agricultural products are restricted. You can also find information about other goods that are restricted or prohibited.
See Program Extension on the Department of State Exchange Visitor Program website to learn about requesting to extend your exchange visitor program beyond the date listed on your Form DS-2019.
More information on maintaining exchange visitor status is on the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement SEVP website under Maintaining Your Immigration Status While a Student or Exchange Visitor.
Failure to depart the United States on time will result in being out of status. Under U.S. law, anyone are out of status will have thier visa automatically voided (Section 222(g) of the Immigration and Nationality Act). Any multiple entry visa that was voided due to being out of status is not valid for any future travel to the United States.
Failure to depart the United States on time may also result in you being ineligible for visas in the future, in some cases. Review Visa Denials and Ineligibilities and Waivers: Laws to learn more.
If your plans change while in the United States (for example, you receive a job offer), you may be able to request a change in your nonimmigrant status through U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). See Change My Nonimmigrant Status on the USCIS website to learn more.
While you are in the United States, receiving a change of status from USCIS does not require you to apply for a new visa. However, once you depart the United States, you must apply for a visa at a U.S. Embassy or Consulate in the appropriate category for your travel.
Exchange visitors are not permitted to enter the United States earlier than 30 days before their program start dates. If you want to enter earlier than 30 days, you must separately apply and qualify for a visitor (B) visa.
After you are admitted to the United States by U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officials in visitor (B) visa status, you must separately apply to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) for a change of status to exchange visitor (J) status. You must apply and be approved prior to the start of your exchange program. You will not be permitted to begin your exchange program until the change of status is approved. Alternatively, you may depart the United States and re-enter on your exchange visitor (J) visa.
There are two nonimmigrant visa categories for persons to participate in exchange visitor programs in the United States. The J-1 visa is for educational and cultural exchange programs designated by the Department of State.
The Q-1 visa is for participation in certain international cultural exchange programs. These programs provide practical training and employment, and allow program participants to share their home country’s history, culture, and traditions in the United States. Applicants who wish to join an international cultural exchange program must be approved in advance by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) on the basis of a petition filed by the U.S. sponsor.
Select Temporary Worker Visas to learn more.
Attempting to obtain a visa by the willful misrepresentation of a material fact, or fraud, may result in the permanent refusal of a visa or denial of entry into the United States.
Citizens of Canada and Bermuda may enter the United States as exchange visitors without a visa. They must present a valid DS-2019 form at the border or airport for admission. For more information see information for Citizens of Canada and Bermuda.
Additional resources for Canadian visitors to the United States can be found on the U.S. Embassy and Consulate websites in Canada.