Generally, a noncitizen who wishes to travel to the United States must first obtain a visa, either a nonimmigrant visa for temporary stay, or an immigrant visa for permanent residence. The United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) created special economic and trade relationships for the United States, Canada, and Mexico. Click United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement to visit the Office of the United States Trade Representative website to learn more.
The nonimmigrant USMCA Professional (TN) visa allows eligible citizens of Canada and Mexico to work in the United States as USMCA professionals in prearranged professional level business activities for U.S. or foreign employers. Permanent residents of Canada and Mexico are not able to apply for TN visas to work as USMCA professionals. Select TN USMCA Professionals on the USCIS website to learn more about TN nonimmigrant status.
Canadians and Mexicans may be eligible to work in the United States as NAFTA professionals under the following conditions:
With some exceptions, each profession requires a baccalaureate (bachelor's) degree as an entry-level requirement. If a baccalaureate is required, experience cannot be substituted for that degree. In some professions, an alternative to a bachelor's degree may be acceptable. For some professions, experience is required in addition to the degree. For a complete list of professions with minimum education requirements and alternative credentials, see Appendix 1603.D.1 of USMCA Chapter 16.
Note: Requirements for Canadians and Mexicans are different, as explained below.
A visa is not required for a Canadian citizen entering the United States as a USMCA Professional, although a visa can be issued to a qualified Canadian TN visa applicant upon application at a U.S. embassy or consulate.
A Canadian citizen can apply for TN nonimmigrant status at a U.S. port-of-entry. Learn about these requirements on the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) websites. More information about receiving TN status without applying for a visa is also available on the U.S. Embassies & Consulates in Canada website.
When is a USMCA Professional (TN) visa required for a Canadian citizen? A Canadian who lives outside Canada with a non-Canadian spouse and/or child(ren), and who plans to enter the United States as a USMCA professional with their family member(s), will need a TN visa in order for the family member(s) to be eligible to apply for derivative TD nonimmigrant visa(s).
There are several steps to apply for a visa. The order of these steps and how you complete them may vary by U.S. Embassy or Consulate. Please consult the instructions on the U.S. embassy or consulate website.
Interviews are generally required for visa applicants with certain limited exceptions. Consular officers may require an interview of any visa applicant.
You should schedule an appointment for your visa interview at the U.S. Embassy or Consulate in the country where you live. You may schedule your interview at another U.S. Embassy or Consulate, but be aware that it may be more difficult to demostrate you qualify for a visa outside of the country where you live.
Wait times for interview appointments vary by location, season, and visa category, so you should apply for your visa early. Review the interview wait time for the location where you will apply.
Gather and prepare the following required documents before your visa interview:
A consular officer will interview you to determine your qualifications for a TN visa. Additional documents may be requested to establish if you are qualified. For example, additional requested documents may include evidence of your intent to depart the United States after employment as a USMCA professional.
Licensure - Proof of licensure to practice a given profession in the United States is not required to receive a TN visa, but you should consider presenting such proof along with your job offer letter and other documentation in support of your TN visa application. Upon arriving in the United States, state or non-Federal authorities may require you to present proof of licensure to practice a given profession.
Review the instructions for how to apply for a visa on the website of the embassy or consulate where you will apply.
During your visa interview, a consular officer will determine whether you are qualified to receive a visa. You will need to establish that you meet the requirements under U.S. law to receive the category of visa for which you are applying.
Ink-free, digital fingerprint scans will be taken as part of your application process. They are usually taken during your interview, but this varies based on location.
After your visa interview, your application may require further administrative processing. You will be informed by the consular officer if further processing is necessary for your application.
When the visa is approved, you will be informed how your passport with visa will be returned to you. Review the visa processing time, to learn how soon your passport with visa will generally be ready for pick-up or delivery by the courier.
Attempting to obtain a visa by the willful misrepresentation of a material fact, or fraud, may result in the permanent refusal of a visa or denial of entry into the United States.