- Terrorism (T)
- Other (O)
There were no changes to the advisory level or risk indicators. Advisory summary was updated.
Review the latest State Department Travel Advisory about Saudi Arabia. You can plan for safe travel by following the entry and exit requirements, reviewing local laws, and other travel guidance from the U.S. embassy or consulate.
Visit sa.usembassy.gov(opens in a new tab)
Learn more about U.S. and Saudi Arabia relations at State.gov (opens in a new tab)
to Saudi Arabia due to risk of Iranian drone and missile targeting of American interests, armed conflict, terrorism, exit bans, and local laws regarding social media activity. Some areas have increased risk. Read the entire Travel Advisory.
Do Not Travel to the Yemen border due to threat of Terrorism.
On March 8, 2026, the Department of State ordered non-emergency U.S. government employees and U.S. government employee family members to leave Saudi Arabia due to safety risks.
This amends the prior on March 3, 2026, Department of State authorization order for non-emergency U.S. government employees and U.S. government employee family members to leave Saudi Arabia due to safety risks.
Following the onset of hostilities between the United States and Iran on February 28, there has been an ongoing threat of drone and missile attacks from Iran. Commercial flights are operational from Saudi Arabia though have been significantly disrupted.
The U.S. government has limited ability to offer emergency services to U.S. citizens in Saudi Arabia due to the safety risks.
There is risk of terrorist violence, including terrorist attacks in Saudi Arabia. Visit the U.S. Department of State’s country reports on terrorism(opens in a new tab) to learn more.
Terrorism is a concern in Saudi Arabia. Attacks can occur with little or no warning, especially around holidays. They can involve knives, firearms, and vehicles.
Terrorists may use violence to respond to direct attacks against them or other military operations in the region.
Potential targets include:
Iran has launched missile and drone attacks into Saudi Arabia. Attacks have targeted cities, infrastructure, airports, military bases, diplomatic, and energy facilities throughout the country.
Iran-backed Houthi rebels have threatened to attack Saudi Arabia again.
Falling debris from intercepted drones and missiles are also a risk. U.S. citizens living and working near energy infrastructure and military bases may be at increased risk, especially closer to the Yemen border.
U.S. citizens have been prevented from leaving Saudi Arabia. Exit bans may be related to pending criminal and civil investigations and cases, including, but not limited to unpaid visa overstay fees, domestic family disputes, and other financial and labor disagreements.
The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has issued a Notice to Airmen (NOTAM) or a Special Federal Aviation Regulation (SFAR). This is due to risks to civil aviation operating within or nearby the Persian Gulf and the Gulf of Oman region, including Saudi Arabia. Consult the Federal Aviation Administration for the most up to date information on current FAA warnings.
Armed groups in Yemen have attacked Saudi border towns and other sites in Saudi Arabia with armed drones, missiles, and rockets. People near the border with Yemen are at increased risk.
The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is located on the Arabian Peninsula, in the Northern and Eastern Hemispheres. It has maritime borders with the Red Sea and the Persian Gulf, also known as the Arabian Gulf. It shares land borders with Jordan, Iraq, Kuwait, Qatar, United Arab Emirates, Oman, and Yemen. It is 3 times the size of Texas.
There is 1 time zone, Arabia Standard Time. It does not observe daylight saving time. Saudi Arabia is 8 hours ahead of Washington, D.C. during Eastern Standard Time.
Abdullah Ibn Hudhafah As Sahmi Street
Roundabout no. 9, Diplomatic Quarter
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia
August 1, 2026
Security Alert: U.S. Mission Saudi Arabia – August 1, 2026