The following individuals may renew their visas while in the United States:
“Immediate family” for A, G, and some NATO visa holders includes a spouse, and unmarried sons and daughters under the age of 21. Children who are 21-22 years old may continue to qualify for the same visa classification as the principal applicant but must present evidence that they are enrolled in school full-time. Children who are 21-22 but not enrolled in school full time or who are over the age of 23 may qualify for a derivative visa only if they meet the following conditions:
Some NATO visa holders include dependent spouses and dependent children as defined in the relevant NATO agreement.
For details, please see the chart below.
As a first step, please review this information. If you have questions, you may contact the Diplomatic Liaison Division, located at the Department of State in the Visa Office.
See Further Questions for contact information.
The Diplomatic Liaison Division reissues clearly approvable U.S. visas and provides related visa services to A-1, A-2, G-1, G-4, NATO-1, and NATO-6 visa holders, including immediate family members and who are:
(Please note that visa validity and a person’s nonimmigrant status in the United States are separate issues. A-1-2, G-1-4, and NATO-1-6 visa holders may not continue to use their visas after their official assignments have ended, even if their visas have not yet expired. Once your official assignment has ended and (if applicable) your registration with the Office of Foreign Missions and/or the UN has been terminated, you may no longer use your A-1-2, G-1-4, or NATO-1-6 visa to enter the United States. Likewise, there is no need to apply to replace an expired A-1-2, G-1-4, or NATO-1-6 visa if you have no plans to travel abroad before completing your current assignment in the United States.
Visa holders may enter the United States during the validity period of their visa. Therefore, those temporarily traveling outside the United States will need a valid visa to seek reentry to the United States in the same status. A valid, unexpired visa does not entitle the visa holder to enter or remain in the United States. The length of time a nonimmigrant may stay in the United States and under what status they are admitted is determined by DHS at the port-of-entry.
If you are in A-3, G-5, or NATO-7 status, you are required to apply at a U.S. Embassy or Consulate abroad for a new visa. Your visa cannot be renewed in the United States.
If you would like to extend your status in the United States to continue working for the same employer, but do not wish to obtain a new visa, the Diplomatic Liaison Division or the U.S. Mission to the UN can coordinate with the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) on the extension of status in some cases. At this time, we are unable to process extensions of stay for A-3, G-5 or NATO-7 visa holders who have changed employers or intend to change employers while in the United States. See Extension of Stay for general information. The foreign mission or international organization should contact the Diplomatic Liaison Division or the U.S. Mission to the UN for case-specific details.
Only A-1, A-2, G-1, G- 4, NATO-1, and NATO-6 visas may be renewed in the United States. Applicants for renewals of all other visa categories must apply at a U.S. Embassy or Consulate, generally in their country of residence.
Gather and prepare the following required documents:
Note: If the photo upload fails, you must submit one printed photo in the format explained in the Photograph Requirements.
The Diplomatic Liaison Division does not endorse the use of any particular commercial courier service, but it may be useful for the return envelope to have a tracking number so you can better determine its location after it leaves our office. If using the U.S. Postal Service, the Postal Service recommends a padded envelope for passport return. (Please note that packages sent with the Postal Service are often subjected to irradiation, which can damage passports, I-94s, and other enclosures.) A family should submit one courier airbill/envelope or one self-addressed, stamped envelope for the return of their documents. Please use the military command's address or the applicant's personal address in the United States as the “from” address on the airbill or the self-addressed envelope. Please ensure that the airbill contains the military command's courier company account number or applicant's valid credit card number.
There are no fees for A, G, and NATO visa application renewals.
A and G Visa Applicants – Your application package, containing all required documents, should be submitted in coordination with your embassy, mission, or international organization.
NATO Visa Applicants – Submit your application package through your commanding office.
Applications may be submitted in person or mailed in:
Applications Submitted in Person in New York, NY – Applications may be submitted to the Office of Foreign Missions reception window on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Fridays, excluding holidays, between 3:00 p.m. and 4:00 p.m. (Eastern Time).
Directions – The Office of Foreign Mission reception window is located on the 8th floor of the U.S. Mission to United Nations building at 799 United Nations Plaza, New York, NY 10017.
Applications Submitted in Person in Washington, DC – Applications may be submitted at the Diplomatic Liaison Division's Diplomatic Reception Area, Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, excluding holidays, between 10:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m. (Eastern Time).
Directions – The Diplomatic Reception Desk is located at 600 19th Street N.W. Washington, D.C. 20522.
Mailed Applications – You may mail your application package, containing all required documents, to the Diplomatic Liaison Division at the following address:
Address – Diplomatic Liaison Division, Department of State, CA/VO/DO/DL, SA-17, Floor 11, Washington, DC 20522-1711. Applications submitted by FedEx or DHL or the U.S. Postal Service should include a prepaid return envelope.
Please allow a minimum of 7-10 business days, not counting date of submission or date of receipt, for your visa renewal to be processed once our office has received it. In some cases, processing may take longer.
Case Status Check – Applicants can easily check the status of their cases online with the Department of State’s CEAC Status Check. To check the status of your case, use your CEAC case number (example: YEARXXX XXX XXXX), or your CEAC Application ID (example: AA0020AKAX), and the location where you applied. Click on “Check My Visa Application Status.” If you received a 221g letter stating that your case requires further “Administrative Processing” this system will let you know if your case has been approved, requires more information, or is still being processed. Check your status here.
For applications submitted in person to the OFM window of the USUN building in New York, your passport will be returned to the OFM window for pick up on Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday 3:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. (Eastern Time).
For applications submitted in person at the Diplomatic Reception Area in Washington, DC, passports with visas may be picked up Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, excluding holidays, between 10:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m. (Eastern Time). To check if your approved visa is ready for pickup, please call (202) 485-7682 between 10:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m. (EST), or (202) 485-7681 to check on visa status between 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. EST.
For applications submitted with a prepaid return envelope, your passport with visa will be mailed to you.
Select Change of Status (see ”In the U.S.” section on the right) to learn about:
| For the Following Services: | Contact: |
| A, G, and NATO visas | Diplomatic Liaison Division Visa Office, Department of State (202) 485-7681 2:00-4:00 p.m. (EST) Monday through Friday, except holidays |