The Department of State is testing a nonimmigrant visa (NIV) expedited appointment program at select U.S. embassies and consulates through December 31, 2026. Applicants at participating locations may choose whether to utilize this optional, voluntary program. This program provides the Department of State with another tool to efficiently manage processing of visa applications for individuals with urgent travel needs, while maintaining the highest standards of security vetting and screening.
Under the pilot program, eligible applicants for B visas – those making new appointments or holding existing appointments with unexpired MRV fee receipts – may pay a $750 fee per appointment to schedule a visa interview within 10 business days (subject to availability). Applicants must first follow the usual process to pay the $185 MRV fee and schedule an interview appointment. Pilot posts will allocate a limited number of appointments daily for the expedited appointment program. If expedited appointments are available, these appointments will be visible for applicants to select when scheduling their appointments. After an applicant selects an expedited appointment date and time, the $750 fee payment must be completed within 10 minutes to secure the appointment. Once made, an expedited appointment date and time cannot be changed. Missed appointments will result in the forfeiture of the fee. The expedited appointment fee is not refundable.
The program allows applicants to receive an earlier appointment only. Every U.S. visa applicant undergoes thorough screening and vetting, and we do not issue a visa until an applicant has demonstrated to the consular officer that he or she is eligible to receive a visa under U.S. law. Applicants participating in the expedited appointment pilot program undergo the same rigorous screening and vetting, and must meet all eligibility requirements to qualify for a visa under U.S. law. Applicants who pay the fee for an expedited appointment have the option to select one of the premium delivery options, if available, at no additional cost. Again, use of the expedited appointment pilot does not guarantee issuance of a visa.
The following Embassies and Consulates are participating in the pilot, with launch dates for the program as follows:
Additional pilot locations may be announced throughout the pilot period.
1. I need an earlier appointment for a tourist/business (B) visa but the reason I need to travel does not meet the emergency request criteria, what should I do?
You may be able to pay $750 to obtain an expedited appointment (this option is only available in certain countries and expedite appointments will only be offered if appointments are available) for tourist/business (B visa category) travel. To do so, you must first schedule a regular appointment. Then, sign-in to your account, click “Continue”, select "Request Expedite" and select “Paid Expedite” option. The “Paid Expedite” option will only display if this option is available in the country where the appointment is being scheduled, and expedited appointments are available, and the applicant meets all of the eligibility criteria.
2. What is a “Paid Expedite” appointment?
A “Paid Expedite” appointment is an option where each applicant pays an additional fee (US $750) to be able to schedule an appointment for a B visa within the next 10 business days. The expedited appointment fee is separate from and in addition to the nonimmigrant visa (MRV) application fee.
Note: Applicants must have a regular appointment scheduled in the future and meet all qualifying criteria in order to access the “Paid Expedite” option. Payment of the expedited appointment fee does not guarantee visa issuance or expedited processing, it only provides an earlier appointment.
3. Who qualifies for a “Paid Expedite” appointment?
Applicants applying for a B visa with a future interview appointment scheduled will be able to see the “Paid Expedite” appointment option.
The “Paid Expedite” option is only available in certain countries. This option will not be displayed if it is not available in the country where the appointment is being scheduled.
4. What happens if I scheduled a “Paid Expedite” appointment and paid the fee and my visa is refused?
The expedited appointment fee allows applicants to schedule a “Paid Expedite” appointment within the next 10 business days. It does NOT guarantee the issuance of a visa, it only provides an earlier appointment. The expedited appointment fee is non-refundable and non-transferable.
5. I am applying with a group of applicants, do we each need to pay the Expedite Fee?
Yes, each applicant in the group must pay the expedited appointment fee. However, the system will present the option to separate the group if you want to schedule a “Paid Expedite” appointment for only certain members of the group.
6. If I requested a regular emergency appointment but was refused, can I still pay the Expedite Fee and have an earlier appointment?
Yes, applicants whose regular emergency visitor appointment request was denied can schedule a “Paid Expedite” appointment if they meet the eligibility criteria.
7. I am renewing a visa and I qualify for the interview waiver process; can I pay the Expedite Fee to have my application processed faster?
No. Only applicants with scheduled interview appointments qualify to pay the expedited appointment fee and schedule an earlier appointment.
8. What happens if I pay the expedited appointment fee and I miss my “Paid Expedite” appointment?
“Paid Expedite” appointments can only be scheduled one time (rescheduling is not allowed) so be sure you select an appointment date and time that you can attend. If you miss your “Paid Expedite” appointment, you will forfeit the expedited appointment fee. If your visa application (MRV) fee was paid less than one year ago, you may be able to reschedule into a regular appointment slot without paying an additional fee. If you would like to schedule another “Paid Expedite” appointment, you must pay another expedited appointment fee.
9. I purchased a “Paid Expedite” appointment and made an expedited appointment. Can I reschedule this appointment?
No, “Paid Expedite” appointments can only be scheduled one time (rescheduling is not allowed). You should plan to attend the appointment you have already scheduled. If you cancel your “Paid Expedite” appointment, you will forfeit the expedited appointment fee.