Generally, a citizen of a foreign country who wishes to enter the United States must first obtain a visa, either a nonimmigrant visa for temporary stay, or an immigrant visa for permanent residence. Crewmember (D) visas are nonimmigrant visas for persons working onboard commercial sea vessels or international airlines in the United States, providing services required for normal operation and intending to depart the United States on the same vessel or any other vessel within 29 days. Crewmember (D-3) visas may be issued to persons performing ship-to-ship liquid cargo operations (lightering activities) to or from another vessel engaged in foreign trade and who will depart the United States within 180 days. If you travel to the United States to join the vessel you will work on, in addition to a crewmember (D) visa, you also need a transit (C) visa or a combination visa as explained below.
| You do not qualify for a Crewmember Visa if: | You may be able to apply for the following visa category: |
|---|---|
| Dry Dock: The primary services you will perform are dry dock repairs under warranty while the boat is docked at a U.S. port. | B-1 |
| Fishing Vessel: You are a crewmember on a temporary basis on a fishing vessel that has a home port or operating base in the United States. | H-2 |
| Coasting Officer: You are a replacement coasting officer employed when an officer of a foreign vessel is granted home leave, and the vessel does not remain in U.S. waters for more than 29 days. | B-1 |
| Private yacht: You are a crewmember on a private yacht sailing out of a foreign port which will be cruising in U.S. waters for more than 29 days. | B-1 |
| Outer Continental Shelf: You are a crewmember going to the Outer Continental Shelf. | B-1 |
If you travel to the United States to meet and board the vessel you will work on, you need a transit (C-1) visa. (This is in addition to the crewmember (D) visa required to work on the vessel.) The interviewing consular officer may request that you provide evidence you are transiting to meet the vessel, for example, a letter from your employer or employer's agent.
If you apply for the transit (C-1) visa at the same time as your crewmember (D) visa, you may be issued a combination C-1/D visa, if the reciprocity schedule for your country of citizenship allows for issuance of a C-1/D visa, and if the consular officer determines you are qualified. Select the country reciprocity schedules for more information.
Lightering is the ship-to-ship transfer of liquid cargo to or from another vessel. Eligible crewmembers temporarily landing in the United States to perform lightering activities for a period not to exceed 180 days may be issued a D-3 visa. The consular officer may issue this in conjunction with a C-4 transit visa, which permits crewmembers to transit through the United States to join a vessel engaged in foreign trade and undertaking lightering activities for a period not to exceed 180 days.
There are several steps to apply for a visa. The order of these steps and how you complete them may vary at the U.S. Embassy or Consulate where you apply. Please consult the instructions available on the embassy or consulate website.
Interviews are generally required for visa applicants with certain limited exceptions. Consular officers may require an interview of any visa applicant.
You should schedule an appointment for your visa interview at the U.S. Embassy or Consulate in the country where you live. You may schedule your interview at another U.S. Embassy or Consulate but be aware that it may be more difficult to qualify for a visa outside of the country where you live.
Wait times for interview appointments vary by location, season, and visa category, so you should apply for your visa early. Review the interview wait time for the location where you will apply:
Gather and prepare the following required documents before your visa interview:
A consular officer will interview you to determine your qualifications for a crewmember visa and may request additional documents. If transiting the United States to meet a vessel, be prepared to provide evidence you are transiting to meet the vessel, for example, a letter from your employer or your employer's agent.
Additional requested documents may include evidence of:
Evidence of your employment and/or your family ties may be sufficient to show the purpose of your trip and your intent to return to your home country. If you cannot cover all the costs for your trip, you may show evidence that another person will cover some or all costs for your trip.
A consular officer will interview you to determine whether you are qualified to receive a crewmember visa, and if so, which visa category is appropriate based on your purpose of travel. You must establish that you meet the requirements under U.S. law to receive the visa in the category for which you are applying.
Ink-free, digital fingerprint scans are taken as part of the application process. They are usually taken during your interview, but this varies based on location.
After your visa interview, the consular officer may determine that your application requires further administrative processing. The consular officer will inform you if this is required.
After the visa is approved, you may need to pay a visa issuance fee (if applicable to your nationality), and make arrangements for the return of the passport and visa to you. Review the visa processing times to learn more.
Attempting to obtain a visa by the willful misrepresentation of a material fact, or fraud, may result in the permanent refusal of a visa or denial of entry into the United States.
Citizens of Canada and Bermuda do not require visas to enter the U.S. for the purpose of travel, as a crewmember. For more information see U.S. Embassy Ottawa website, U.S. Consulate Hamilton website and CBP website.