Review the FAQs below for more information about the online DS-260 form.
Immigrant Visa applicants must have:
Diversity Visa applicants must have:
You can access the DS-260 from the Consular Electronic Application Center (CEAC) website, by going to Immigrant Visas.state.gov and clicking on “Submit Visa Application and Civil Documents,” or on the website of the U.S. embassy or consulate where you will apply.
No. All answers, except as specially provided, must be in English, using English characters only. Applications submitted in any language other than English may be rejected, and you will be required to log back into the Consular Electronic Application Center (CEAC) and provide English answers.
Most fields on the DS-260 are mandatory. You may leave fields marked “Optional” blank. Some fields may also give you the option to select “Does Not Apply.” If a field does not apply to you, you may mark the box next to “Does Not Apply.” All other fields must be completed: the application will not allow you to submit a form with any mandatory fields left blank. In this instance, an error message will be displayed and you will be required to complete the field before continuing with the application. If you do not answer questions that apply, your form may be rejected.
You may save your partially completed DS-260 at any time by clicking on the "Save" button at the bottom of every page. If you need to step away, simply click the "Save" button to save your progress, and click on "Sign Out" in the upper right-hand corner of the screen. All data that you entered up to the point of clicking on "Save" will be stored until you are ready to continue completing the form.
To ensure your privacy if you step away in the middle of data entry, the DS-260 has a “time out” feature. If your DS-260 application is idle for approximately 20 minutes, CEAC will log you off. All data that you entered up to the last time you clicked "Save" will be stored until you are ready to continue completing the form. Any data that you entered after clicking "Save" will be lost.
You can access your saved application by returning to the Consular Electronic Application Center (CEAC) website and selecting View/Edit from the IV and Alien Registration section of the Immigrant Visa – Summary Information screen. You will then be provided with a list of all applicants in your case along with the status of each application (NOT STARTED, INCOMPLETE, or SUBMITTED). To continue updating an incomplete application, simply click on the "Edit" button to the right of the application’s status.
Once you submit your application, by clicking the “Sign and Submit Application” button on the "Sign and Submit" page, you will be unable to access your application again without the assistance of NVC for immigrant visas, KCC for Diversity Visas, or the U.S. Embassy or Consulate at which you plan to apply.
You should not bring your application with you to your interview. The interviewing officer will have full access to review your application online.