Welcome
What is a Schengen Visa?
For short-term visits to Germany and the Schengen area that last less than 90 days, you are required to apply for a visa.
To avoid long processing times, please familiarise yourself with our general information.
Register for an appointment
You must register online for any appointment. You can do this easily in the online systems of the Embassy Islamabad or the Consulate General Karachi.
Only one appointment is necessary per person. Multiple registration for the same applicant will be cancelled or denied entry at the appointment.
Upon registration you receive an E-Mail with your waiting list number and clear information of your application status.
The German Embassy Islamabad operates a waiting list. You cannot register for an appointment directly, but will be placed on that list and receive confirmation once your final appointment has been set.
Due to the constant high demand, the German Consulate General in Karachi has also set up a waiting list in order to efficiently adapt the appointment allocation to the capacities of our visa office.
You will no longer be able to book an appointment directly, but you will first register your name on a waiting list and in a second step appointments will be allocated at a later date by the consulate in chronological order of registrations based on available capacity. To ensure that appointments are allocated fairly and smoothly, all applicants (for the above mentioned categories) are asked to register on the waiting list.
For this purpose, additional information is required to better understand your travel purpose. Therefore, please complete the waiting list registration carefully with the requested information. Only when the required data is entered correctly and completely an appointment will be allocated.
You dont not need to use an agent to register on the waiting list ! Registration on the waiting list is free of charge.
Application form and required documents
Please follow the detailed document guidance set out for the different visa categories below. Please closely follow these instructions, bring all required documents in the correct order.
Please use the Videx online visa-application form to make your personal appearance in the German Missions as efficient and convenient as possible. The print-out of the online application form includes a barcode on the last page, which you should bring along. The barcode can be used to automatically enter your application details in the Mission's computer system and will therefore significantly speed up the application process at the counter.
The processing time for short-term visa usually takes about fourteen (14) calendar days from the day of application. In some cases a longer processing time is necessary for different reasons. Especially during peak traveling seasons, there might be an extended waiting period. Therefore, please book an appointment as soon as you know your exact travel dates. It is possible to apply for Schengen visa up to six months in advance of your journey.
| Consulate General Karachi Visa Section | Tel.: (0092-21) 3587 3782 Fax: (0092-21) 3587 4009 |
| Opening hours visa section | Monday to Friday: 8:00 - 12:00 |
| Collection of passports | Monday to Thursday: 13:30 - 14:30 |